A Brief Method for Reciting Samantabhadra's Prayer of Good Actions
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Recite ‘Sangye chötsok... etc.’ to take refuge and generate bodhicitta three times:
sangye chö dang tsok kyi chok nam la
In the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
changchub bardu dak ni kyab su chi
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
dak gi jin sok gyipé sönam kyi
Through the merit of practising generosity and so on,
dro la pen chir sangye drubpar shok
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of all beings.
dün khar lama chomden shakya tub
In the sky before me is the guru, the conqueror Śākyamuni,
dündu changchub sempa kuntuzang
And in front of him is the bodhisattva Samantabhadra,
choktsam tengok sangye changsem sok
In the cardinal and intermediate directions, above and below, are the budddhas and bodhisattvas,
and the rest,
mönlam drubpé pangpor shyukpa dang
Who remain as witnesses to the fulfilment of these aspirations,
tün gyur dentsik nangwé mönpé né
And declare facilitating words of truth, through which the objects of my aspiration
jitar tabpa yishyin drubpa dang
May be accomplished just as I wish for and request,
changchub chö chok yongsu dzok gyur né
And so that having entirely perfected supreme enlightened action,
kuntuzangpö mönlam tarchin shok
I may bring the aspirations of Samantabhadra to complete fulfilment.
Recite this, then chant the Prayer of Good Actions clearly, correctly and melodiously. At the
end:
tubwang khor ché ö shyu rang la tim
Śākyamuni and his retinue melt into light and dissolve into me.
ösal tröpa dralwé ngang la shyak
I rest in a state of clear light, free from conceptual elaboration.

In response to a request from Lama Ngakchö, the retreat master of Karmo,1 this was written by
Chökyi Lodrö.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "bzang spyod 'don thabs nyung ngu/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos
kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 7: 611
↑ i.e., Rongme Karmo Taktsang, a hermitage to the northeast of Dzongsar Monastery.