A Prayer of Aspiration for the Mountain of Glory
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om ah hung bendza guru padma siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
rang nang namdak pema ö kyi shing
My whole perception is the utterly pure realm of Lotus Light,
köpa yongdzok zangdok palgyi rir
Arrayed in complete perfection as the Copper Coloured Mountain of Glory, in which is
ku sum podrang shalmé nyam gawé
The limitless palace of the three kāyas, full of joy and happiness.
ok khang tulkü tsok khang chenpo na
On the lower storey, in the great Nirmāṇakāya shrine room,
tsa sum kündü orgyen pemajung
Is the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, embodiment of the three roots,
rigdzin pawo khandrö khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his entourage of vidyādharas, pawos and khandros,
sang ngak dorjé tekpé chö dra drok
Where the sound of the teachings of the Secret Mantra Vajrayāna rings out.
bar khang longkü shal yé khang chen du
On the middle storey in the great mansion of the Sambhogakāya
pak chok tukje chenpo chenrezik
Dwells the supreme Great Compassionate One, Avalokiteśvara,
sangye changsem khor gyi korwa shuk
Surrounded by his retinue of buddhas and bodhisattvas.
dé teng chökü shing kham jam lé ü
Above is the limitless heavenly realm of the Dharmakāya, in the centre of which
tönpa gönpo ö nang tayepa
Resides the teacher and protector, Amitābha,
rang lé tamidepé khor gyi kor
Surrounded by his entourage, who are in nature no different from him.
dé tar ku sum shing kham ten ten pa
So bringing to mind as clearly as if actually present
ngönsum shindu salwar drenpa dang
The pure realms of the three kāyas―the support and that which is supported―
depé chakchö solwa tapé tü
And through the power of paying homage, making offerings and prayer out of faith and devotion,
dak sok gurü jejuk kalden nam
May I and others―fortunate students of the master―
chiwé tsé na né chö minjung shing
When death comes, experience neither suffering nor sorrow, and
khar chen za sok daki dün sü né
May Kharchen Za and other ḍākinīs come to show us the way
pema ö kyi shing du kyewa dang
So we may be born in the realm of Lotus Light and
mindrol lungten lam nga sa chu dzok
Be ripened and liberated as the prophecies foretold, perfecting the five paths and ten stages.
orgyen jé dang gong long yermé shok
May we be inseparable from the vast expanse of the wisdom mind of the Lord of Orgyen!

Written by Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö at the request of Seng Drön, a devoted female practitioner from
Ling, who accompanied her request with an offering of seven-measure silver coins, equal
in number to the five wheels (chakras). Siddhirastu!

| Translated by Ane Tsöndrü, 2018.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "dpal ri'i smon lam/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros
kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 11: 305–306