All-Pervading Auspiciousness
An Aspiration for the Spread of the Teachings of the Eight Great Chariots of the Practice Lineage
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

namo guru buddha bodhisatvaye
Namo guru-buddha-bodhisattvāya!

chok dü gyalwa sé ché tukkyé dang
Buddhas and bodhisattvas throughout the whole of space and time, with your noble resolve,
gya bö rigdzin drubtob gyatso yi
And all you adepts and vidyādharas of India and Tibet in your oceanic immensity—
khyen tsé nüpé tukjé tsal chung la
Let the compassion of your knowledge, love and power burst forth,
namdak mönpé né di drubpar dzö
And make these utterly pure aspirations of mine come true!

tsa sum kündü pema jungné dang
May the tradition of Padmākara, who embodies all Three Roots,
tenpé ngadak khenchen shyiwatso
The great abbot Śāntarakṣita, sovereign of the teachings,
chögyal tsangpa lha yi metok gi
And the Dharma-king Tsangpa Lhayi Metok,
ringluk kater tenpa gyé gyur chik
The teachings of kama and terma, spread far and wide!

sung rab tamché dampar sharwa yi
May the excellent tradition of pure view and conduct,
gyüpa sumden jowo kadampé
The threefold lineage of the Jowo Kadampa,
tachö nampar dakpé gyün zang di
In which all scriptures arise as personal instructions,
kalpé tar yang nubpar magyur chik
Remain without decline until the aeon’s very end!

tubten do dang ngak kyi chö tsul nam
May the precious Sakyapa teachings, perfectly complete,
manor jishyin jé la nyeng dralwé
Which are unerring and confident in their precise analysis
yongdzok tenpé ngadak sakyapé
Of the sūtra and mantra systems of Buddhadharma,
tenpa rinchen dzam ling künkhyab shok
Spread throughout the whole world of Jambudvīpa!

palden dorjé chang né lek ongpé
May the supreme teachings of the definitive Mahāmudrā
ka shyi gyüpé ngak gyü gyatso dang
And oceanic tantras in the lineage of the four transmissions1
ngedön chakgya chenpö tenpa chok
That perfectly derive from the glorious Vajradhara
mi nub shé dang drubpé dargyé shok
Never wane but through teaching and practice spread far and wide!

yeshe daki nyi sok pakyul gyi
May the ripening empowerments and liberating instructions
khé dang drubpé tuk chü shangpa jé
Of the Golden Dharma of Khyungpo Naljor with its fivefold ultimate,
tartuk ngaden khyungpo naljor gyi
The noble Shangpa, which is the heart essence of the learned and accomplished
ser chö mindrol dargyé nubmé shok
Of the noble land, such as the two wisdom ḍākinīs,2 never wane but flourish!

gyüdé shyi yi chulung bumtrak khyil
May the teachings of both Jonang and Zhalu traditions,
dorjé naljor yenlak drukpa yi
In which myriad rivers of the four classes of tantra merge,
drubpé gyalsar dzek la da mepa
The six branches of Vajra Yoga3
jo shyal nam nyi tenpa gyé gyur chik
That lead matchlessly to the royal seat of accomplishment, thrive!

ali kali chulung chenpo yi
May the instructions for pacifying suffering which derive
gyü kyi dampa dukngal shyijé dang
From the tantra Great River of Vowels and Consonants (Āli Kāli),
yum dön zabmo machik lab drön gyi
And the practice of Severance, which is the profound import of the Mother Prajñāpāramitā,
tuk dzö chö yul nyamlen dargyé shok
And heart treasure of Machik Labdrön, spread far and wide!

wen sum ten né go sum dorjé sum
May the unsurpassed practice of the perfection phase,
nyendrub drubtob chenpo orgyen pé
The heart-essence of the great adept Orgyenpa,
tuk kyi tiklé lamé dzokrim gyi
The approach and accomplishment of the three vajras for the three doors
nyamlen nubmé lar yang pelgyé shok
Based on threefold isolation, fade no further but expand and spread again!

shyenyang tsembu pa dang mitra sok
In addition, may the other excellent streams of teaching that exist,
tri tren gyüpé lama tamché kyi
Among all the gurus of various lineages of minor instruction,
damngak gyün zang jinyé yöpa nam
Such as those from Kantalipa and Mitrayogin, all endure,
tö sam gompé yündu nepar shok
Upheld forever more by study, contemplation and meditation.

gangjong shedrub lam sol malüpé
May those who gather to study and practice the dharma treasuries
kabab sang chen chö kyi duwa po
Of the Jamgön gurus, the bodhisattvas of the three families,
jamgön lama rik sum sempa yi
Compilers of the great secret dharma of special transmissions
chö dzö shé dang drubpé dü tsok kyi
From all traditions of study and practice in the Land of Snows,
dzinmé khyön kün tamché khyabpa dang
Increase and fill each and every corner of this world;
nakchok dü kyi güpa kün shyi né
May all the troubles of this dark age be pacified;
ten dang tendzin upang sitser to
May the teachings and their holders be exalted unto the very peak of existence,
drubgyü shingta ché gyé gyé gyur chik
And may the eight great chariots of the practice lineage spread far and wide.

Thus, Jamyang Lodrö Gyatso made this prayer on the auspicious thirteenth day during a Gyalphur
conjunction in the Month of Miracles while transmitting the Precious Treasury of Instructions
(Damngak Rinpoche’i Dzö). May the gurus and the buddhas and their heirs grant their
blessings so that it is accomplished just as aspired. Sarvadā maṅgalaṃ śubham.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "sgrub brgyud shing rta chen po brgyad kyi smon lam
bkra shis kun khyab/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse
Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 12: 253–255

Version: 1.2-20210909
↑ The four transmissions (bka' babs bzhi) received by Tilopa, from which the Kagyü (bka' brgyud)
School takes its name are generally said to be: 1) Cāryapa's instructions on caṇḍālāi
or tummo (inner heat), 2) Nāgārjuna's instructions on illusory body and clear light or luminosity
(prabhāsvara), 3) Kambala's instructions on dreams, and 4) Sukhāsiddhī's instructions
on bardo and transference of consciousness ('pho ba).↑ i.e., Nigūma and Sukhāsiddhī.↑
i.e., withdrawal, meditative absorption, wind yoga, retention, recollection, and meditative
concentration.