Aspiration to Be Reborn at the Vajra Seat (Bodhgayā), Akaniṣṭha on Earth
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

emaho
Emaho!
dzamling sa yi tewa dorjé den
The Vajra Seat at the heart of this world of Jambudvīpa,
dü sum gyalwa ngönpar tsang gya dang
A realm where the victorious buddhas of the three times awaken,
dü tul chökyi khorlo korwé shying
Conquer Māra and turn the Wheel of Dharma—
né chok khyepar chen du kyewar shok
There, in that extraordinarily sublime place, may I take birth.

kalzang nyima tubwang tob chü dak
Sun of the Fortunate Aeon, lord of sages, master of the ten powers,
sangye changsem nyenrang sokyé sok
Surrounded by the vast, oceanic gatherings of your retinue—
khor tsok gyatsö yongsu korwa yi
Buddhas, bodhisattvas, śrāvakas, pratyekabuddhas and ordinary beings—
shakyé gyalpö shyab la solwa deb
King of the Śākyas, at your feet I pray.

deshek shyuk dang chak dang shyengpa sok
To all those places where the Bliss-gone Buddha dwelled,
gangdu dzepé né nam tamché la’ang
Where he sat, where he walked, and where he stood,
go sum güpa chenpö chaktsal shying
I pay homage with utmost respect of body, speech and mind,
nying né solwa deb so jingyi lob
And offer this heartfelt prayer: inspire me with your blessings!

norbu chushel tar kar gandho la
To the gandhola shrine, white as a water-crystal jewel,
gyajin trul gyi zöpé chörten ni
An offering stūpa which Indra magically created,
teng dang oktu deshyin shekpa yi
And which is filled to overflowing above and below
ringsel churbur tam la solwa deb
With the precious relics of tathāgatas, I pray.

chödün denpé dorjé sa shyi ni
To the foundational ground with its seven vajra qualities,
kalpa jik kyang shikpar mi nü shing
Indestructible even at the termination of an age,
gyalwé tuk kyi chöying dorjé ché
Where the Buddha's dharmadhātu wisdom mind
gyadram den du ting la solwa deb
Is represented in the great crossed-vajra throne, I pray.

tönpé shyalkyin changchub chenpö ku
The teacher's representative, the Mahābodhi image,
tubwang ngö su shyuk dang khyé mepa
Which is no different from the Lord of Sages in person,
semchen sönam möpa tar nangwa
And appears according to beings' merit and appreciation.
ngotsar tongdrol chenpor solwa deb
To this wondrous, great liberator-upon-sight, I pray.

bhodhi briksha mönlam tü drub ching
To the bodhivṛkṣa,1 created through the power of aspiration,
rinchen natsok jönshing drebur den
Like a magical fruit-bearing tree of varied jewels,
dribma pok dang lung gi dzi chok kyi
Which plants the seed of liberation in those it shades
tarpé sabön deb la solwa deb
And those touched by the same gust of wind, I pray.

choktsam küntu changchub jönpa dang
To this place where bodhi trees abound in all directions,
ku sung tuk kyi ten chok drang lé dé
With its countless sublime representations of enlightened body, speech and mind,
dorjé sa dzin chur bur tampa yi
To this magically emanated celestial palace,
trulpé shyalmé khang la solwa deb
Thronged with holders of vajra realization, I pray.

rinchen natsok amonika yi
To this place arrayed with precious stones and amonika,
sa shyi tar shying metok yi ong dang
Where charming flowers are arranged in rows,
choktsam riwo men pö tsishing gyé
And hills of fragrant medicinal plants lie all around,
rinchen drakri dzé la solwa deb
Enhanced by cliffs of jewel-like rock, I pray.

lha yi chuwo gangga yamu na
To this blissful, sweet, expansive place,
né rendza sok chöyön trengwé gyün
Where a heavenly river with its stream of offering waters
chökyi dra tsik dar dir lhung lhung drok
From the Gaṅgā, Yamunā and Nairañjanā and more
dé jam yangpé shying der solwa deb
Burbles and murmurs with the sound of Dharma, I pray.

sangye changsem nyenrang rigdzin dang
Where buddhas, bodhisattvas, śrāvakas, pratyekabuddhas, vidyādharas,
pawo khandro trin tar tibpa yi
And vīras and ḍākinīs all gather like clouds
tö yang drok dang chöpé char chen beb
To sing praises and pour down vast showers of offering—
dü sum gyalwé ngak der solwa deb
To this place extolled by the victorious ones of the three times, I pray.

detar shying gi chokgyur dampa dir
In this most sacred, most sublime of locations,
ma ong sangye jamchen lasokpé
May I take birth, first among the retinue of future buddhas,
khor gyi tokmar kyé shing lungten nö
Maitreya and the rest, to receive their prophecies
changchub chok gi chöpa ché gyur chik
And carry out the activity of supreme awakening.

ngöjor yitrul chötrin gyatsö chö
I offer vast oceanic clouds of real and imagined gifts,
dik lhung kün shak gé la jé yirang
Confess all misdeeds and downfalls, rejoice in virtue,
chökhor kul shying nya ngen mi da sol
Request the turning of the Dharma Wheel, plead against the passing into nirvāṇa,
gé tsok drowa changchub chir ngo o
And dedicate all amassed virtue towards the awakening of beings.

deng né zung té tserab tamché du
From this moment on, throughout all my future lives,
tönpa shakyé gyalpö shyab nyen ching
May I always serve the teacher, King of the Śākyas.
tenpa rinchen salwar jepa dang
May I gain the power to illuminate the precious Dharma
ten la nö nam dulwé tu tob shok
And subjugate all who would harm the teachings.

barché dü kyi namyang mitsuk shing
May I never fall prey to obstacles or demons,
tsé dang sönam lodrö rab pel té
May my life span, merit and intelligence increase,
khyen nyi yeshe nangwa gyepa dang
And through the expansive light of twofold wisdom,
shyen la penpa tayé jungwar shok
May I bring benefit to others in limitless ways.

namshyik dorjé den du ngön jang chub
When the time comes for me to awaken at the Vajra Seat,
sangye dzepa malü yongdzok shing
May I accomplish all the buddhas' deeds without exception,
chö kyi khorlo gyachen rab kor né
Perfectly turn the Wheel of Dharma on an immense scale,
namkha nyampé drowa rab drol shok
And liberate all beings, as infinite as space in number.

Thus, Lodrö Lungtok Gyatso Drimamepé Ö, or Jampal Gawé Gocha, wrote these words of aspiration
in the presence of the bodhi tree at the Vajra Seat.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the kind assistance of Alak Zenkar Rinpoche and with the generous
support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "sa la spyod pa'i 'og min rdo rje gdan du skye ba'i
smon lam/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang,
2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 10: 357–359
↑ Bodhi tree