An Aspiration Prayer for the Flourishing of the Jonang Teachings
by Tenzin Gyatso, His Holiness the Fourteenth Dalai Lama

drang yé kalpar tukkyé lek gompé
Having perfectly meditated upon generating the enlightened mind for incalculable eons,
tayé drowé rekong damchö char
The incomparable sovereign of the Śākyas wisely brought down the rain
beb khé nyammé shakyé wangpo yi
Of sublime teachings in order to fulfill the wishes of illimitable beings.
dro di gelek pal gyi kyang du sol
To you who protects beings through glorious virtue, I pay homage!

rim sum chö kyi khorlö gongpé dön
The intended meaning of the three successive Wheels of Dharma
khé dang drub nyé dumé tralwa lé
Was explicated from multiple realizations derived from study and practice.
chö kyi go mang rab yé yagyal chik
This is what distinguishes the one from the many gates of the Buddha's Dharma.
jonangpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of the Jonang flourish!

gangjong gyalten pemé tsal yangpor
Amidst the vast lotus grove of the victor's teachings in the Land of Snow,
shedrub chö tsul dabgya drolwé trö
Hundreds of petals of Buddhist exposition and meditation systems bloomed.
khorlo tamé gongpa tsal tönpé
Among them, the dynamic intent of the final Wheel of Dharma was revealed.
jonangpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of the Jonang flourish!

dogyü shyen dang shé sol midrawé
You uphold and transmit an unparalleled oral transmission,
shingté sol chen dü kyi khorlö gyü
A commentarial tradition distinct from other sūtras and tantras
mi nyam dzin ching pelwé kabab pa
On the great chariot tradition of the Kālacakra Tantra.
jonangpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of the Jonang flourish!

yumo mi kyö dorjé né zung té
From Yumo Mikyö Dorje, through Dolpopa,
dol buwa dang kün ga drolwé chok
Kunga Drolchok, the protector Jetsun Tāranātha,
jetsün drol gön sok kyi lek pelwé
And successive masters, your lineage has gracefully disseminated.
jonangpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of the Jonang flourish!

nyingpö do dang ludrub shyung gi dön
The timelessly ultimate residing, stable, enduring
shyi dré yermé takten deshek nying
Enlightened essence is the indivisible ground and fruition.
yené shyukpé döndam drelwé tsul
This is the way elucidated in the Essence Sūtras and the meaning beheld by Nāgārjuna.
jonangpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of the Jonang flourish!

do yi tawa shyen tong uma dang
Your Middle Way zhentong view of the sūtras
gyü dön naljor druk gi nyamlen gyi
And your practice of the Six Yogas which unfolds the meaning of the tantras
chöku ngön du dzepé shyé sol ché
Are great traditions of explanation that activate the actual dimension of reality.
jonangpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of the Jonang flourish!

kyabné gyal dang gyalsé jin chen dang
Through the great blessings of the sources of refuge, the victor and the victor's children,
chönyi döndam gyurwa mepé tob
Through the power of the unalterable ultimate nature of reality,
karchok lha dang dakchak mögü tü
Through the force of divine virtue, and through our devotion,
mönlam di tab jishyin drubpar shok
May this aspiration prayer be fulfilled accordingly!

This "Aspiration Prayer for the Flourishing of the Jonang Tradition" was requested (together
with the support of offerings) by Khenpo Ngawang Dorje and other Jonang practitioners, monastic
and lay, from home and abroad. It was composed by Śākyamuni's monk Tenzin Gyatso, the
Dalai Lama on the eighth day of the tenth month of the Iron Snake year (November 23, 2001)
at Thekchen Choling in Dharamsala, Himachal Pradesh, India. May it be accomplished!

| Translated by Michael R. Sheehy (Ngedon Tenzin Dargyay) at Takten Phuntsog Choling Monastery,
Shimla, India (01/23/06).
First published on www.jonangfoundation.org. Reproduced here with the translator's permission.