Aspiration Prayer of the Ultimate Definitive Meaning
by Kunkhyen Dolpopa Sherab Gyaltsen

om delek su gyur chik
Oṃ! Let there be auspiciousness!
kyewa küntu lab sum dom sum damtsik tamché kyönmé yangdak dzokpar shok
In all my lifetimes, may the three trainings, the three precepts, and all my tantric commitments
be completely pure without blemishes!
lüné tatang shintu zang shying lungsem tamché ngang gi gak shing rang gak ten gak chenpor gakpar
shok
May my bodily postures, yogic gaze, and all of the extremely fine vital winds and mind internally
cease, naturally cease, perpetually cease, and greatly cease!
namshé tamché nyur gak yeshe nyur tok semchen kün gyi dönjé shok
May the entirety of ordinary awareness swiftly cease so that all beings may benefit from swiftly
realizing pristine awareness!
künshyi namshé nyurdu gak né künshyi yeshe dechen khakhyab chenpo nyur tob shok
May ordinary awareness as the universal ground swiftly cease so that the great bliss which is
pristine awareness as the universal ground magnificently pervading space is swiftly realized!
shyen jung yeshe nyurdu kyé né rangjung yeshe khakhyab chenpo nyur tob shok
May the pristine awareness which arises extrinsically swiftly come about so that the naturally
manifesting pristine awareness magnificently pervading space is swiftly realized!
küntak tamché nyurdu gak né yongdrub nyur tob semchen kün gyi dönjé shok
May all conceptual imputations swiftly cease so that all beings may benefit from swiftly realizing
what is perfectly established!
lobur drima tamché nyur gak deshek nyingpo nyur tob khakhyab drowé dönjé shok
May all incidental obscurations swiftly cease so that beings as vast as space may benefit from
swiftly realizing their enlightened essence!
chi nang drima tamché nyur gak shyen chok parol dangpö sangye nyur tob shok
May all external and internal obscurations swiftly cease so that passing beyond into the other
supreme state of a primordial Buddha is swiftly realized!
tamé kyön kün rab gak umé yönten kün tob semchen kün gyi dönjé shok
May all enduring defilements totally cease so that all beings may benefit from realizing every
quality of the Middle Way!
lobur chö kyi kyön kün nyur gak chönyi nyukmé dechen drang yé tobpar shok
May all defiled incidental phenomena swiftly cease so that the genuine nature of phenomena which
is great bliss beyond enumeration is realized!
nampar tokpé kyön kün rab gak mi tok yeshe chakgya chenpo nyur tob shok
May all defilements of discursive thinking totally cease so that the Great Seal of non-discursive
pristine awareness is swiftly realized!
lungsem powé chakpa rab gak pomé chakchen dewa chenpo nyur tob shok
May attachment to transference of the vital winds and mind totally cease so that the great bliss
of the un-subsiding Great Seal is swiftly realized!
döndam chökü yönten drang dé döné shyukpé sangye nyur tob rangdön tarchin shok
May Buddhahood which resides from the very beginning beyond enumeration as the qualities of
the ultimate dimension of reality be swiftly realized for the final benefit of oneself!
kündzob zukkü yönten mejung dzokpar kyé né khakhyab drowé dönjé shok
May the marvelous qualities of the tangible dimension of relative reality completely come about
in order to benefit beings as vast as space!

This "Aspiration Prayer of the Ultimate Definitive Meaning" was arranged and taught by the one
endowed with the four kinds of reliance (Kunkhyen Dolpopa Sherab Gyaltsen) for the benefit
of beings.

| Translated by Michael R. Sheehy (Ngedon Tenzin Dargyay) at Drepung Stupa, India (01/16/06)
under the guidance of Khenpo Kunga Sherab Saljay.
Originally published on www.jonangfoundation.org. Reproduced here with permission.