Aspiration to Accomplish Every Aim
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

chok chu dü shyir shyukpé gyalwa dang
Victorious ones dwelling in the ten directions and three times,
dé sé changsem nyen rang drachom sok
Their bodhisattva heirs and śrāvaka and pratyekabuddha arhats—
pakpé tsok nam yeshe chen denpé
Noble assembly with your eyes of wisdom,
namdak mönlam drubpé pangpo dzö
Bear witness to the fulfilment of this pure prayer of aspiration.

shakya sengé sung rab pungpo lé
Through all the excellent deeds of past, present and future,
tra tsé shé tsam gangchen jong diru
Represented by the sources of virtue created here
chögyal lo pen nam kyi gyurwa dang
Through the gathering as a collection
ka yi duwa chenpö lekbam nam
Of a mere portion of the Śākya lion's teachings,
dengdir düpé tsok kyi drukpa yi
Which are present here in this Land of Snows,
gewé tsawa jinyé chipa dé
Having been translated by dharma-kings, lotsāwas and paṇḍitas,
tsönpé dü sum lek jé jinyepa
And compiled in these great volumes of the Word—
kün kyang tenpa gyepé gyu ru ngo
I dedicate all as a cause for the flourishing of the teachings.

khyepar ten la tsewé nyi bü tsok
In particular, may all the ‘children of the sun’ who harm the teachings1
nyurdu shyi né jikten dé shying kyi
Be swiftly pacified and may the whole world enjoy happiness and wellbeing.
dak la drelwa tokpé semchen nam
May all those sentient beings who have a connection with me
lé nyön dukngal malü jangwar shok
Purify all past karma, mental afflictions, and suffering.

yulngor shiwé jindak pomo nam
May all benefactors, male and female, who have perished in conflict
trulnang dukngal malü kün shyi né
Pacify all forms of suffering and deluded perception,
ngön to lhami ten zang tobpar shok
And gain an excellent form as a god or human being in the higher realms.

dak la kyab su nyenpa tamché kyang
May all those who have taken refuge in me
galkyen kün shyi tsé sö paljor gyé
Overcome all adversity and enjoy increased longevity, merit, glory and wealth.
samjor tamché yishyin drubpa dang
May all that they do in thought and deed be successful
sönam tsokchen yongsu dzokpar shok
And may they perfectly accumulate great stores of merit.

dakchak nedön nöpa kün shyi shying
May we pacify all illness, malevolent influences and harm.
zukchen zukmé mikha jepur dang
May all threats of scandal, sorcery, spirits and astrological influence
si kek lasok nyertsé mitsuk shing
From beings with form and those without form be overcome,
könchok sum gyi kyab ok tsüpar shok
And may everyone remain under the protection of the Three Jewels.

tserab küntu dampé chö dang tré
In all our lives may we encounter the sacred Dharma,
tön jé yangdak geweshé dang jal
And always meet authentic spiritual teachers who can guide us.
tsultrim pungpo yongsu dzokpa dang
May we perfectly accumulate the components of ethical discipline
gyalwé ten la jawa jepar shok
And act to serve the teachings of the Victorious One.

tenpa rinchen dzamling küntu khyab
May the precious teachings pervade throughout the world.
tendzin kyé nam shyabpé tenpa dang
May the great beings who uphold these teachings live long.
ten la dangwa tsa bur mé sek shyin
May those who are hostile towards the teachings be overcome like grass in a wildfire,
tenpa chok chur gyepé tashi shok
And may all be auspicious for the teachings to spread throughout the ten directions.

This aspiration was made during the Month of Miracles in the Earth Dog year immediately after
reading the precious Words of the Buddha.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "smon lam don kun 'grub pa/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi
blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 12: 261–262
↑ Child of the sun (nyi [ma'i] bu; Skt. sūryaputra/arkaputra) is a poetic synonym for Yama (gshin
rje), Lord of Death.