Aspirations in Accordance with the Dharma
by Dodrupchen Jigme Tenpe Nyima

kyi na nyenkur jawé shying
When I am happy, it is you whom I honour and revere,
duk na yü kyi böpé yul
When I suffer, it is you whom I call upon for help,
tsé di resa chimé kyab
You are my source of hope for this life, and protection for the next—
pema jungné chenrezig
Padmasambhava, Avalokiteśvara,
drinchen tsawé lama sum
And my kind root teacher.
tsen dang namgyur tadé kyang
Although you assume these different names and forms,
gong long dzepa yermé chir
In the expanse of your wisdom and in your deeds, you are no different,
sosor mi dzin chik tu du
So without considering you as separate, but fused together as one—
solwa deb so tukjé zung
I pray to you: hold me with your compassion!
dü nam küntu jingyi lob
At all times and in all situations, inspire me with your blessings!

daljor milü tob dü su
Now that I have found this human existence, with its freedoms and advantages,
nyingpö lha chö drubpar shok
Let me accomplish the most essential teachings!

tsé tung gün nyi drawa di
Life, like a winter’s day, lasts but a short while,
dönden chö la drilwar shok
So let me devote it to what is meaningful: the Dharma.

dong tuk chiwa jung tsana
If I should face death all of a sudden,
chö kyi rada lebpar shok
Let the teachings come swiftly to my aid!

takring chimar drowé tsé
When setting out upon the long journey to the next life,
chö kyi lam gyak mangwar shok
Let my provisions of Dharma be plentiful!

tsé dir chö kyi sabön teb
By planting the seed of Dharma in this life,
chima lo tok lekpar shok
May I reap an abundant harvest in the next!

gar kyé gangdu song na yang
Wherever I am born, wheresoever is my destination,
chö kyi bakchak separ shok
Let my propensity for the Dharma be awakened!

kyiduk leknyé chi jung yang
Happiness or suffering, good or bad—no matter what occurs,
lo té chö la jepar shok
May I always place my trust in the Dharma!

chö kyi jukgo manorwa
Since it is the infallible entry to the Dharma,
depé tsawa tenpar shok
Let the roots of my faith be strong!

chö kyi shyima machukpa
Since it is the definite foundation of the Dharma,
mi tsé tulshyuk lingwar shok
Let my training in nonviolence be secure!

chö kyi sokshing mayowa
Since it is the vital axis of the Dharma,
denpé shyunglam songwar shok
May I follow the way that accords with how things truly are!

chö kyi nyingkhu malepa
Since it is the pure quintessence of the Dharma,
changchub sem nyi jongwar shok
Let me master bodhicitta in both its aspects!

damchö gyalpo yigé druk
Since the six-syllable mantra is the sovereign of practices,
yelmé dé gom jepar shok
May I recite it and meditate unwaveringly!

chö shyin drub la barché mé
May I accomplish the Dharma authentically and without obstacle,
tünkyen yishyin dzompar shok
And find favourable conditions in abundance, just as I desire!

lama lha la pang chol né
Taking the teachers and the deities as my witness,
mönlam chö la tabpa di
May these, my prayers of aspiration towards the Dharma,
tab sar teb shin chir mi dok
Take seed in fertile ground, and without ever failing,
chüzö mepar drubpar shok
May they be accomplished, and never go to waste!

Written by Tenpé Nyima for the devoted Drala Pendar.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2008. Revised 2012 & 2016.

Source: 'jigs med bstan pa'i nyi ma. "dgra bla phan dar gyi ngor bris pa/" in rDo grub chen
’jigs med bstan pa’i nyi ma’i gsung ’bum. 7 vols. Chengdu: Si khron mi rigs dpe skrun khang,
2003. TBRC: W25007, vol. 1: 477–478