Aspiration Written in Sadness During the Water Snake Year
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

lama dang sangye changchub sempa yidam shyitro pawo khandro chökyong norlha terdak gi tsok dang
chepa nam la chaktsal shying chö do kyab su chi’o
To the gurus, buddhas, bodhisattvas, peaceful and wrathful yidam deities, vīras, ḍākinīs, dharma
protectors, wealth deities and treasure keepers, I pay homage, make offerings and go
for refuge:
jingyi lob par dzé du sol
Inspire me with your blessings, I pray.
dak gi tsé khorwa tokma mepa né tama danta la tuk gi bar dikpa migewé lé ché dang rangshyin
gyi nyepa dang
In all my lives throughout beginningless saṃsāra until now I have committed harmful, non-virtuous
actions, both proscribed and naturally harmful wrongs,
tungwar gyur ching
I have committed downfalls,
tarpa dang tamché khyenpé lam la bardu chö ching dribpar gyurwé tsok rang gi jepa dang
And done things that obstruct and obscure the path to liberation and omniscience;
shyen la jé du chukpa dang
I have encouraged others to do likewise,
jepa la jesu yi rangwar jepa sok ngö dang gyü né go sum dang drelwa chi chipa tamché lama gyalwa
sé dang chepa nam kyi chen ngar tol shying shak so
And rejoiced in their actions. Thus, all that I have done both directly and indirectly related
to body, speech and mind, I hereby confess before all the gurus, buddhas and their heirs.
nong shying gyö do
I feel sorrow and remorse.
mi chab bo
I do not conceal anything,
mi bé do
No do I hide anything.
chinché yangdakpar lekpar dammo
Henceforth, I shall perfectly restrain myself.
sok la bab kyang mi gyi do
Even at the cost of my own life, I will not commit such acts again.
pakpa tukjé chenpo dang denpa khyé nam kyi dak gi gyö tsang gi shakpa di yangdakpar shyé né
dribpar migyurwé dak tsang chenpo tsal du sol
Noble ones endowed with great compassion, please accept these remorseful confessions of mine,
and grant the great absolution that purifies potential obscurations.
tsewa chenpö zöpar dzé du sol
In your great love, forgive me, I pray.
dak gi dü sum du sakpé gewé tsawa di tsön té
As represented by the sources of virtue that I accumulate throughout the three times,
sosö kyewo dang pakpa nyentö dang rang sangyé dang changchub sempa lam la lobpa dang chirmidokpa
chenpö sa la nepa nam dang pakpa mi lobpa nya ngen lé depé sa la shyukpé sangye nam kyi
dangpo changchub tu tuk kyepa né zung
I gather together and combine all the virtuous actions of ordinary beings, noble śrāvakas, pratyekabuddhas,
bodhisattvas on the paths of training, those on the stages of great irreversibility,
as well as noble buddhas at the stage of no-more-training and nirvāṇa, from the
first moment that they set their minds upon awakening
tar gyi ngönpar dzok sang ma gyé kyi bar gyi
Until they finally attain complete and perfect enlightenment,
zakché zakmé kyi gewé tsok lana yöpa dang
Both surpassable tainted and untainted virtues,
lana machipé gé tsok tamché chik tu dü shing dum té
As well as the unsurpassable, all combined,
gönpo tukjé chenpo dang denpa khyé nam kyi chen ngar kunzang chöpé trinpung chenpor bulwar gyi’o
Presenting it as the great offering clouds of Samantabhadra to all you guardians and great compassionate
ones.
detar pulwa la ten né tsa gyü kyi lama dampa chok chur shek shing shyukpé sangye changchub sempa
chenpo tamché kyi jitar tuk la gongpé dön tamché gekmé yongsu drubpar gyur chik
Through this offering, may all that is envisioned by the noble root and lineage gurus and all
the buddhas and bodhisattvas who dwell throughout the ten directions all come to pass entirely
and without hindrance.
chok chu dü shyi gyalwa sé ché dang
Unleash the power of the great truth and compassion1
khyepar lama orgyen pema jung
Of the victorious buddhas and their bodhisattva heirs throughout the ten directions and four
times,
arya taré dorjé shyönnu yi
And especially the Oḍḍiyāna Guru Padmasambhava,
tukjé denpa chenpö tsal chung la
Ārya Tārā and Vajrakumāra.
dak gi shé gyü sekpar jepa yi
As the fierce flames of the five poisonous mental afflictions
nyönmong duk ngé mewal drakpo dang
Burn and blaze within my mind,
khyepar dö sé kampé dungwa yi
And I am beset by desire and craving in particular,
lar yang sipar yang yang khor shying nar
I must circle again and again, tormented, in conditioned existence.
dadung dindré wang du dak gyur na
If I continue to succumb like this in future,
ngensong dukngal drakpo nyongwar ngé
I will surely experience the intense misery of the lower realms.
dena gönpo khyé nam tukjé yi
Therefore, all you guardians in your compassion,
né ngen len gyi namtok ngenpa nam
Let all my negative thoughts based on dysfunctional tendencies
nyurwa nyi du shyompar dzé du sol
Be swiftly and surely eradicated, I pray.
chinché lar mi kyewar jingyi lob
Grant your blessings so that they may never recur.
lona chö dro damchö lam du long
Cause my mind to turn toward the Dharma, the Dharma to progress along the path,
lam gyi trul shyi trulpa yeshe su
The path to pacify delusion and delusion to dawn as wisdom.
charwar lama yidam tukjé kyob
Gurus and yidam deities, guard me with your compassion.
sipé mé tsok shyiwar dzé du sol
Quench the fires of worldly existence, I pray.
chö tün samjor yishyin drubpa dang
Cause my wishes and actions that accord with the Dharma to succeed,
changchub lam gyi barché shyiwar dzö
And pacify all obstacles on the path to awakening, I pray.
kyema kyi hü gönpo tukjé chen
Kyema Kyihü! O compassionate protectors,
lé ngen dak la chen gyi zik su sol
Look kindly upon me, an evildoer, I pray.
zik né lé ngen wang du mi tongwar
Do not permit me to fall prey to negative deeds,
yangdak ta dang tokpa khyepar chen
But inspire me with your blessings so that I may swiftly develop
nyurdu gyü la kyewar jingyi lob
The genuine view and extraordinary realization.
di né tsé pö nyi du deden shying
As soon as I depart from this life, may I be reborn
dren chok öpakmé gön shyab drung du
In the blissful realm, in the presence of the supreme guide Lord Amitābha,
kyé né changchub lungten tobpar shok
And receive a prophecy of my future awakening.
dak la drel dang ming tsam töpa nam
May all those connected to me, even those who merely hear my name,
ngensong dukngal tadak mi nyong shying
Never experience the sufferings of the lower realms,
shying chok dewachen du kyewar shok
But take birth in the supreme realm of Sukhāvatī.
dorna dak gi jawa chi gyipa
In short, in everything that I do
rangdön milam tsam du ang mi sem shying
May I never consider my own self-interest even in my dreams,
shyen la penpa khonar gyurwa la
But always act purely to bring benefit to others.
gönpo jamyang kuntuzang sok kyi
In this, may the protector Mañjughoṣa, Samantabhadra and others
jitar mönpa shyindu drub gyur chik
Ensure that all this comes to pass, exactly in accordance with my aspirations.

This was written as an aspiration in a state of sadness on the sixth day of the tenth month
of the Water Snake year.2

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "chu sbrul zla bar yid skyo nas bris pa'i smon lam/"
in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986
Vol. 12: 313–316
↑ There are two versions of this text in the 2012 edition of Jamyang Khyentse's collected writings.
In one, entitled Chu sbrul lor yid skyo nas bris pa'i smon lam (Aspiration Written
in Sadness During the Water Snake Year), this phrase is given as "great bliss" (bde ba chen
po). But here I follow the reading of the second occurrence, in the text entitled Bde chen
zhing gi smon lam, where the line appears as "great truth" (bden pa chen po).↑ Corresponding
to 12 November 1953.