Aspiration for the Spread of the Teachings
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om svasti
Oṃ svasti.
ngagyur kater tenpa gyatsö dak
Master of the oceanic teachings of the Ancient Translations, kama and terma,
orgyen chokgyur dechen shyikpo ling
Orgyen Chokgyur Dechen Shikpo Lingpa,
yongdzok tenpé ngadak khyentsé wang
Sovereign of all the teachings, Khyentse Wangpo,
dzö ngé shingta lodrö tayé kyi
And pioneer of the Five Treasuries, Lodrö Thayé—
ringluk mi nyam lané lar pel shok
May your tradition never fade but grow further and further.

chökhor nam sum ten chok gyurwamé
May this supreme, unchanging support for the three turnings of the Dharma Wheel,1
mi nub tenpé tsé su shyukpé ling
This sanctuary where the teachings remain without ever fading,
trimden düpé tsok kyi yong gangné
Be filled with disciplined members of the saṅgha community,
lungtok tenpa dargyé yün né shok
And may the teachings of scripture and realization flourish and endure.

chöchö chuyi jawar taktu tsön
May everyone exert themselves continuously in the ten dharmic activities.2
pang dang lokpé trinlé gyün mi ché
May the activities of renunciation and study continue without interruption.
gendün miché denpé tutob kyi
And through the power and strength of the saṅgha's true indivisibility,
tenpa chok gyar pelwé tashi shok
May all be auspicious for the teachings to spread in a hundred directions.

This prayer was offered by Jamyang Lodrö Gyatso Palzangpo on the third day of the kārtika (tenth)
month at the very top of the Sang-ngak Podrang.3 May the light of virtue and excellence
flood throughout the three worlds. Śubham.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "bstan rgyas smon lam/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo
gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 12: 331
↑ This and following line incorporate the syllables of the name Tenchok Gyurme Ling (rten mchog
'gyur med gling), the monastery of Chokgyur Lingpa, better known as Neten Monastery.↑
i.e., copying texts, making offerings, charity, study, reading, memorizing, explaining, reciting
aloud, contemplating and meditating.↑ Reading gsang sngags stong as gsang sngags pho
brang, as the latter when written in shorthand script (bskungs yig/bsdus yig) could resemble
the future. The Sang-ngak Podrang was Chokgyur Lingpa's residence at Neten Monastery.