Aspiration Written on the Occasion of Princess Sangdé’s Passing in Sikkim
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

namo
Namo!
lama yidam khandro dang
Gurus, yidam deities and ḍākinīs,
sangye chö dang gendün tsok
Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha,
khyepar nyewé sé chen gyé
And especially the Eight Great Close Sons—1
tukjé den nam gong su sol
All you compassionate ones: consider me, I pray!

drel tob nam kyi tsor jepé
May all the beings that exist throughout the universe,
namkhé talé drowa nam
Headed by those with whom I have a connection,
dukngal kün dang dralwa dang
Always be free from every form of suffering,
dé dang taktu mindral shok
And may they never be deprived of happiness!

dak la mik né gangdak gi
May all those who ever have perceived me
zang ngen drelwé düpa kün
And forged a connection, whether good or bad,
ngendrö jik lé rab drol té
Be entirely unafraid of the lower realms
dendrö ten zang tobpar shok
And find an excellent form in happy states.

lhakpar dé mö drakpo yi
In particular, may anyone who has taken refuge in me,
güpé kyab su nyenpa nam
Respectfully out of faith and devotion,
mitün kyen ngen kün shyi né
Overcome all adversity and misfortune,
tsesö yeshe gyepar shok
And expand their longevity, merit and wisdom!

dak gi ming tsam töpa nam
May anyone who even so much as hears my name
sipé dungwa kün shyi shying
Pacify all the torments of conditioned existence,
tori ten zang tobpa dang
Secure an excellent form in higher realms,
tar gyi changchub la gö shok
And ultimately arrive at awakening!

sangye chö nam yongdzok shing
May the factors of their enlightenment be complete,
zakmé dewé jorpa dang
May they be rich with the bliss that is inexhaustible,
pakpé nor gyi rab kyi dé
And, delighted with the wealth of a noble one,
trulpé drowa drenpar shok
May they send emanations to guide living beings!

tserab küntu tekchen gyi
In all our lives, may we be born
rikchen du ni kyewa dang
With a propensity for Mahāyāna,
yongdzin shé zang dang trö dé
Meet an excellent guide and teacher,
tek chok chö la chöpar shok
And savour the Dharma of the supreme vehicle!

changchub drub la barchö kyi
May we be free from every form of hindrance
tsewa kün dang dralwa dang
That might impede our accomplishment of awakening.
nöpa kün gyi mitsuk shing
May we be impervious to all forms of harm
pünsum tsokpé jorpar shok
And enjoy a wealth of perfect excellence!

zung trin tingdzin ngönshé sok
May we be endowed with immeasurable qualities,
pakmé yönten dangden shying
Such as clouds of dhāraṇī, samādhi and heightened perception,
nyönmong shejé trin tsok kün
And may all the clouds of emotional and cognitive obscurations
chö kyi ying su shyiwar shok
Dissolve into dharmadhātu—the ultimate expanse!

tongnyi nyingjé nyingpochen
May we possess the supreme mind of awakening,
changchub sem chok dangden shying
Emptiness with compassion as its very essence,
namkha jisi né kyi bar
And, for as long as space itself remains,
shyenpen tayé jungwar shok
May we provide infinite benefit to others!

detar mönpé né tadak
So that all these points of aspiration
gekmé drubpa gyalwa dang
May be fulfilled without any obstacle,
dé sé tsok kyi jin lob shing
May the victorious buddhas and their heirs grant their blessings
chönyi denpé tob bar shok
And may the force of the truth of dharmatā blaze forth!

By Chökyi Lodrö.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2019.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "'bras ljongs su lha lcam sangs bde 'das skabs bris
pa'i smon lam/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang,
2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 12: 351–352
↑ The bodhisattvas Mañjuśrī, Vajrapāṇi, Avalokiteśvara, Kṣitigarbha, Sarvanīvaraṇaviṣkambhin,
Ākaśagarbha, Maitreya and Samantabhadra.