Aspiration for the Spread of the Guhyagarbha Teachings
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om swati
Oṃ svasti.
dü sum gyalwa kün gyi gongpé til
Fundamental realization of all the victorious ones of the three times,
nang gyü tekpé yang chü gyutrul ché
Quintessence of the inner tantric vehicles, great Magical Illusion,
palden sangwé nyingpö gyü kyi dön
The real meaning of the glorious Secret Essence tantra—
shé dang drubpé sateng khyab gyur chik
May its study and practice spread throughout the world!

den nyi yermé chökü dön tok shing
May we realize the meaning of the dharmakāya, the two truths indivisible,
dak nyam chenpö tingdzin rolmo trol
May the music of the samādhi of great purity and equalness resound,
lam gyur rigdzin nam shyi drebu nyé
May we gain the results of the path, the four levels of a vidyādhara,
dorjé sempé gyalsa tob gyur chik
And may we ultimately attain the sovereign domain of Vajrasattva!

gyü kyi gyalpö chönyi den tob kyi
Through the power of the natural truth of this, the king of tantras,
nakchok dü kyi güpa kün shyi shying
May all the faults and failings of these evil times be pacified,
gyalten chi dang ngé sang nyingpo yi
And may all be auspicious for the teachings of Buddhism in general
tenpa dar shying gyepé tashi shok
And this definitive Secret Essence in particular to spread far and wide!

Thus, when Jamyang Lodrö Gyatso taught the king of tantras to a small group in Darjeeling,1
beginning on the 16th of the seventh month of the Earth Dog year and ending on the astrologically
favourable date of the 28th of the same month, he wrote these words of aspiration
immediately upon conclusion of the teachings. May virtue and positivity abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2019.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "nges gsang bstan pa rgyas pa'i smon lam/" in ’Jam dbyangs
chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol.
12: 339
↑ In his diary, Jamyang Khyentse records that he used the gSang bdag dgongs rgyan commentary
of Lochen Dharmaśrī and that the recipients included Tulku Tupten of Yangchö Monastery and
Sogyal Tulku. See 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols. Bir, H.P.: Khyentse
Labrang, 2012, vol. 2: 274