Blazing Splendour of Good Fortune
A Prayer for the Spread of the Teachings of the Katok Tradition
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om swasti
Oṃ svasti.
chok dü tsa sum gyalwa sé ché dang
Through the power and truth of the Three Roots, victorious buddhas and their heirs throughout
the whole of space and time,
ngagyur chökyong sungmé den tob kyi
And the dharma protectors and guardians of the Ancient Translations,
tubten chi dang khyepar orgyen jé
May this vital axis of Śākyamuni's teachings in general and the teachings of the Lord of Oḍḍiyāna
in particular,
tenpé sokshing kater jungkhung ché
The sublime tradition of Deshek Pobpa Tayé,1
deshek pobpa tayé ringluk chok
Magnificent source of both kama and terma,
si té bardu mi nyam dar shying gyé
Remain without ever declining until the end of existence and spread far and wide.
trimden düpé chuter pelwa dang
May the ocean-like community of ethical vow-holders increase,
lab sum drima mepé tukgyü chuk
Their minds replete with the three immaculate trainings.
shé dang drubpé jawé dü da shying
May they devote their time to education and meditative accomplishment
yangdak tawa gom dang chöpa yi
And by means of the authentic view, meditation and conduct,
shakyé tenpé gyaltsen dzinpa dang
May they hold aloft their victory banner of Śākyamuni's teachings
ngé sang nyingpo chok gyar khyab gyur chik
And cause the definitive Secret Essence to flourish in every direction.

Thus, on the eighth day of the jyaiṣṭha (fifth) month of the Wood Dog year, Jamyang Lodrö Gyatso
offered this prayer in the great temple of Katok, the second Akaniṣṭha. May it be accomplished.
Maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "bstan rgyas smon lam bkra shis dpal 'bar/" in ’Jam
dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986
Vol. 12: 311
↑ i.e., Katok Dampa Deshek (kaḥ thog dam pa bde gshegs, 1122–1192), the founder of Katok Monastery.