Burgeoning Joy and Happiness
An Aspiration for the Welfare of the Great Hidden Land of Sikkim
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

namo guru
Namo guru!
chok sum tsa sum ku sum kündüpa
Embodiment of the Three Jewels, Three Roots and Three Kāyas,
malü drowé kyab gön pema jung
Protector and guardian of all beings without exception—Guru Padmākara,
bi ma bai ro trisong tsogyal sok
Together with Vimalamitra, Vairotsana, Trisong Detsen, Tsogyal and the rest,
kater rigdzin gyüpa tamché dang
All the lineages of vidyādharas for kama and terma,
yidam shyitro khandro chökyong dang
Peaceful and wrathful yidam deities, ḍākinīs and dharma-protectors,
norlha ter gyi dakpo la sokpa
Wealth deities, treasure-keepers and the rest—
khyen tsé nü pé ter la wang jorwé
All supreme sources of refuge who have mastered the treasury
kyab kyi chokgyur tamché gong su sol
Of wisdom, love and spiritual power, turn your attention towards us!

dzamling chi dang khyepar bepé yul
May the whole world in general and this hidden land in particular,
dremo jong shyé palri pema ö
The Fruit-Filled Valley—Sikkim—like the glorious mountain Lotus Light
sa dir pöpé drubné jinchen la
Transported to earth as a blessed place of accomplishment,
mi tsang nyamdrib göpa sang gyur chik
Be cleansed of all impurity, stains of transgression and defilement.

tsa sum lha nam né dir tak shyuk né
May the deities of the Three Roots remain forever,
nöchü tashi dorjé jin chen wab
Bringing down great rains of auspiciousness and vajra-blessings upon the environment and beings,
yul la gé chu dé shyi palyön gyé
Spreading the riches of the ten virtues and four aspects of well-being1 throughout the land,
sishyi cha yang dangchü gukpar dzö
And summoning the essence of wealth and prosperity from throughout existence and quiescence.

chöden gyalpö chabsi ngatang gyé
May the dominion of the dharma-endowed king grow in strength,
rikgyü pel shying kutsé yündu ten
His progeny flourish and his life be secure and long.
parol dang dra nöjé dön gek nam
May hostile opposing forces, harm-doers and obstacle-makers
talwé dul shyin lakpar dzé du sol
Be utterly vanquished—destroyed and turned to dust.

ngé sang nyingpö tenpa rabgyé shing
May the definitive teachings of the Secret Essence spread far and wide.
kyendro tamché jampé sem dangden
May the minds of living beings be filled with love.
pentsün pama tabü dushé kyi
May they regard one another as dear parents from former lives,
yangdak gé la chöpar dzé du sol
And genuinely devote themselves to virtuous action.

heruka pal namkha jikme sok
May the prayers of the glorious heruka Namkha Jigme
naljor ché shyi jitar mönpa shyin
And the rest—those known as the four yogi-confrères2
gekmé drub ching guru pema yi
Be fulfilled without obstacle, and may the aspirations and prophecies
tukkyé dentsik luwa mepar shok
Of Guru Padma be shown to be infallible.

lha mayin dang yi sub gongpo yi
May the activity of asuras and beguiling gongpo spirits
gyu lam ché né bé yul rinchen gyi
Be brought to an end, and may all be auspicious
tashi dzö khang jikme dorjé gur
So that this treasury of fortune, this vajra dome of fearlessness
takten gelek nangwé tashi shok
Remains forever, a beacon of virtue and positivity!

Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö wrote these words of aspiration during the third month of the Fire Bird
year (1957) in response to a request from Lama Dampa Ngawang Drakpa.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2019.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "sbas gnas chen po 'bras ljongs bde ba'i smon lam/"
in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986
Vol. 12: 355–356
↑ sde bzhi, i.e., 1) worldly values (chos), 2) wealth (nor), 3) sensory pleasures (’dod yon)
and 4) liberation (thar pa).↑ rnal ’byor mched bzhi i.e., Katok Kuntu Zangpo (kaḥ thog kun
tu bzang po), Lhatsün Namkha Jigme (lha btsun nam mkha’ ’jigs med, 1597–1654), Chögyal Puntsok
Namgyal (chos rgyal phun tshogs rnam rgyal, 1604–c.1670) and Ngadak Puntsok Rigdzin
(mnga’ bdag phun tshogs rig ’dzin, d. 1656/7).