Clouds of Offerings to Delight the Victorious Ones
An Aspiration Prayer for the Spread of the Teachings of the Lord of Siddhas, Dzogchen Rinpoche
by Khenpo Thubten Tsöndrü

Namo mahāguru padma vidyādharāya!1

tsen tsam töpé ngendrö jikpa lé
You are Ratnaśikhī, the victorious buddha with the jewel-like crown,
drol dzé gyalwa rinchen tsuktor chen
Whose name alone liberates us from the fears of the lower realms,
dorjé lobpön zuk su ngönsum jön
Manifesting directly in the form of a vajra master—
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

sang chen gyüdé gyatsö ngadak chok
You are the actual embodiment of Kukkurāja, Lord of Siddhas,
drukpa dorjé chang gi gyaltsab ché
The great regent of the buddha of the sixth family, Vajradhara,
drubpé wangchuk kuku radza ngö
Who is supreme sovereign over an ocean of secret tantras—
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

dé sum long gü dzogpachenpö ten
You are the great charioteer who brought to these mountainous lands of snow
gangri trö dir drenpé shingta ché
The Dzogpachenpo teachings of the three classes and nine spaces,
po chen kur shyeng bi ma mi tra ngö
And achieved the body of supreme transference, Vimalamitra in person—
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

chakgya chenpö yeshe ngön zikpé
You are the one who led all he met to the indestructible state,
dorjé dohé dreltsé dorjé sar
Through vajra songs expressing the direct realization of the wisdom of Mahāmudrā,
jor khedrub chok sara hapa ngö
The supremely learned and accomplished Saraha—
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

sang ngak tönpa pema sambha wé
You are the teacher of secret mantra who received the blessings of the mind transmission
gong gyü jin tob drubpa chok nyé né
From Padmasambhava and gained the supreme level of accomplishment,
lhasin drenkhol lang chen pal seng ngö
The tamer of gods and demons, Langchen Palseng—2
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

dzutrul tok dé trulnang drak gi ri
You are the supremely learned and accomplished practitioner of yogic conduct,
nyil khé drubpa chok gi tulshyuk chen
Who, with a magic bolt of lightning, destroyed the delusory appearance of a rocky mountain,
ké nyi mawang könchok jungné ngö
The great master of two languages Langdro Könchok Jungne—3
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

khen lob chögyal sum gyi tukkyé tü
You are the one who strove to enhance the splendour of the sun-like teachings of Buddha,
lek drang gyalten nyinmor jepé pal
Which had been introduced through the powerful aspirations of the Abbot Śāntarakṣita, the Precious
Master Padmasambhava and the Dharma King Trisong Detsen,
tenpé tsalak ngadak tri ral ngö
The actual embodiment of King Tri Ralpachen—
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

dendön ngön du zikpé yeshe kyi
You are the supreme emanation of the great siddha Phagtsangwa,4
timuk lam long tulshyuk tsaldzokpa
Who perfected the discipline of taking delusion onto the path,
drubchen paktsangwa yi ngö trul chok
Through the wisdom of seeing directly the meaning of reality—
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

tsé chik dorjé chang drub mi la jé
You are the heart-son of the one who attained the level of Vajradhara in a single life, the
great Milarepa,
nyen gyü dampé dzö dzin tuk kyi sé
And the holder of the treasury of his instructions from the aural lineage,
ngen dzong tönpa changchub gyalpo ngö
Teacher from Ngendzong, Changchub Gyalpo—5
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

kalzang namdren drukpa sengé tsen
You are the nirmāṇakāya emanation unstained by the womb’s defilements,
ngal gyi dribpé ma gö trulpé ku
Who will take the name of Senge as the sixth guide of this fortunate age,
drubpa chok nyé dü sum khyenpa ngö
The actual embodiment of the supremely accomplished Düsum Khyenpa—6
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

chönyi ngönsum zikpé tulshyuk kyi
You are the one who, through the discipline of seeing the nature of things directly,
orgyen yul chok sachö shying kün nyul
Wandered throughout Oḍḍiyāna and the other lands of this world,
drubpé wangchuk lingjé repa ngö
Lord among siddhas, Lingje Repa, in person—7
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

lama chökur tokpé mögü kyi
You are the king of accomplished masters who realized the ultimate yoga
naljor tarchin tokpé wangchuk chok
Of devotion, in which the lama is realized to be the dharmakāya,
drubgyü tendzin taklung tangpa ngö
The holder of the teachings of the practice lineage, Taklung Thangpa—8
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

tokpa chok nyé nang sem wang du jor
You are the sublime emanation of Orgyen Rangjungpa,9
tatang lasok tulshyuk kün drubpa
Who gained supreme accomplishment and mastery over phenomena and mind,
orgyen rangjungpa yi ngö trul chok
And accomplished all the disciplines, such as the yogic gazes—
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

gyalwa kün gyi khyenrab jampé yang
You are the embodiment of all the buddhas’ wisdom, Manjuśrī,
tubten tsalak ngur mik dzinpé gar
Who appeared as a saffron-robed monk in order to preserve the Buddhadharma,
gyalwa nyipa lobzang drakpa ngö
The actual embodiment of the second buddha Lobzang Drakpa—10
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

shyenyang orgyen chökyi gyalpo dang
Again and again, you are praised in vajra prophecies,
rik sum sempa chok gi namtrul du
As an emanation of the supreme bodhisattvas, the protectors of the three families,
dorjé lung gi yangyang ngakpa yi
And of Orgyen, king of Dharma—
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

dorna chok dü gyalwa rabjam kyi
In short, you are Vajrasattva in person,
khyabdak dorjé sem ngö khyö yin chir
The all-pervading lord of all the buddhas throughout the whole of space and time,
sé ché gyal kün khyö kyi gyutrul gar
And all the other buddhas and bodhisattvas are but your own magical emanations—
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
Dzogchen Rinpoche, may your teachings flourish and spread!

gyalwa kün ngö pema rigdzin dang
Embodiment of all the buddhas, Pema Rigdzin,11
gyurmé tek chok tendzin palzangpo
Gyurme Thekchok Tenzin Pal Zangpo,12
ngedön tendzin zangpö tukkyé tü
And Ngedön Tendzin Zangpo,13 through your enlightened aspirations,
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

mingyur namkhé dorjé dömé gön
Primordial protector, Mingyur Namkhe Dorje,14
künzik tubten chö kyi dorjé chok
Supreme all-seeing one, Thubten Chökyi Dorje,15
jikdral changchub dorjé tukkyé tü
And Jikdral Thekchok Dorje,16 through your enlightened aspirations,
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

namkha ösal terchen nyima drak
Namkha Ösel,17 the great tertön Nyima Drakpa,18
rabjam tenpé gyaltsen lasokpé
Rabjam Tenpe Gyaltsen19 and the rest—
tsungdral tuk kyi sé chok nam kyi tü
Peerless heart-sons, through your powerful aspirations,
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

jikme trinlé özer rim jön dang
Successive incarnations of Jigme Trinle Özer,20
jikme mikyö dorjé rim jön sok
And of Jigme Mikyö Dorje—21
gyüdzin kyé chen nam kyi tukkyé tü
Great masters who hold this lineage, through your powerful aspirations,
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

paltrul jikme chökyi wangpo dang
Patrul Jigme Chökyi Wangpo,
mipam jampal gyepé dorjé sok
Mipham Jampal Gyepe Dorje and the rest,
tsödral khedrub gyatsö tukkyé tü
Oceans of indisputably learned and accomplished masters, through the power of your aspirations,
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

gyalsé shyenpen tayé rim jön dang
Successive incarnations of Gyalse Shenpen Thaye,22
kün druk ling sum khyen kong nyi lasok
The three tulkus of Kun,23 Druk24 and Ling25 as well as Khyentse, Kongtrul and the rest,
gyaltsab choktrul nam kyi tukkyé tü
Regents and supreme incarnations—through the power of your aspirations,
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

pema tashi pema badzra sok
Khenchen Pema Tashi,26 Khenchen Pema Vajra27 and the others in this
dren chok tendzin chö zangwar jönpé
Golden chain of learned abbots, supreme guides and noble upholders of the teachings—
khen rab ser ri trengwé tukkyé tü
Through the power of your aspirations,
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

khyepar gya shyung chusum chalak ché
Shenpen Chökyi Nangwa28 whose enlightened activity caused the teaching and study
chenyen trinlé gangchen ta ü kün
Of the thirteen classical Indian treatises and other texts to spread throughout the Land of
Snows—
pel dzé shyenpen chökyi nangwé tü
Through your powerful aspirations,
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

tenpé tsalak shyi sum nyam shyé tsang
With the pure tradition of the three essential foundations of the teachings,29
ngagyur kar ter trin drub chak shyé zang
And the great ritual practices of Ngagyur Nyingma, kama and terma,
pong dang lokpé dé chen gyi dzinpé
Upheld within the great arenas of meditation and learning—
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

do ngak chö tsul gyatsö chenyen pel
The study and teaching of countless approaches to sutra and mantra thriving,
jadral trulshyik drubpö risul kheng
The valleys and hillsides filled with renunciate yogins putting an end to delusion,
ten gyü dzinpé gangjong ta ü khyab
And the holders of the teachings flooding throughout the Land of Snows—
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

khorlo sum gyi trinlé damé chir
Through unparalleled achievements in the three spheres of learning, meditation and activity,
dokham ngagyur tenpé tsalak tu
Making such a vital contribution to the Nyingma teachings in the East of Tibet,
drakpé chö dung dra yi sa sum nyen
The Dharma conch of your fame resounds throughout the three worlds—
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

kah pal nyi sok sa gé ka nying gi
A great centre of the Dharma, a place where many holders of the teachings
tendzin dumé do ngak rik shyung ché
From Sakya, Gelug, Kagyü and Nyingma monasteries, such as Kathok and Palyul,
sen sam dzé né chö kyi dé chenpo
Come to study and reflect on the teachings of sutra and mantra and the sciences—
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

dorna tön chok shakyé gyalpo yi
In brief, as the force of infinite aspirations and noble intentions
tenpa yongsu dzokpa dzinpa la
To uphold the complete teachings of the supreme guide,
tukkyé mönlam gyatsö tu drubpa
The King of the Śākya clan, are brought to fulfilment—
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

gyü sum rigdzin drubtob gyatsö tsok
Through the power and strength of the vidyādharas of the three lineages of transmission, infinite
accomplished siddhas,
tekpa rimpa gu yi yidam lha
Yidam deities of the nine successive yānas,
khandro chökyong sungmé nütu yi
Ḍākinīs, dharma protectors and guardians,
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

tukjé lé trul kyechok mangdu jön
May countless supreme beings arrive in succession, manifesting through the force of their compassion,
chö gyü dzin nam chenyen taktu pel
May teaching and study forever increase among the holders of the Dharma transmission,
chökyong sungmé trinlé tsulshyin drub
And may the activity of the protectors and guardians be effective!
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

chok chü gyalwa sé dangché nam kyi
Through the power of all the buddhas and bodhisattvas of the ten directions,
drowé döndu changchub tukkyé né
Their intention to gain awakening for the benefit of beings,
tsok nyi mönlam yongsu dzokpé tü
Their completion of the two accumulations and the perfection of their aspirations,
dzogchenpa yi tenpa gyé gyur chik
May the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

dak sok deng né tserab tamché du
From this day forth, throughout all our future lives,
gyalten nyingpo gyalwa dzogchenpé
As we uphold the teachings of the Dzogchen tradition, the very essence of the Buddhadharma,
tenpa dzin la lü dang sok dor yang
May we never waver or relax our resolve, even at the cost of our lives,
chungzé tsam shyik lhöpar magyur chik
So that the teachings of this tradition of the Dzogchenpas flourish and spread!

gyalsé mönlam bumtrak drang yepa
Vast and beyond measure are the aspirations of the bodhisattvas,
kündü damchö dzinpé mönlam chok
And yet all of them come together in the supreme wish to preserve the Dharma.
drubpé tün gyur sé ché gyal nam kyi
Now may the buddhas and their bodhisattva heirs confer the mudrā of supreme generosity,
chok jin chakgya kyong shyin nangwar dzö
And make everything conducive to the fulfilment of our prayers:

palden lamé kutsé kal gyar ten
May the lives of the glorious masters be secure for hundreds of kalpas!
tendzin gendün dé yi dzinmar khyab
May the saṅgha who uphold the teachings extend throughout the world!
nyé dang kurti ché té tubpé ten
May the teachings of the Buddha always be honoured and respected!
taktu dar shying gyepé tashi shok
And may everything be auspicious for them to flourish and spread!

This aspiration for the spread of the teachings is based on the enlightened words of the omniscient
Lord of Dharma, Rigdzin Jigme Lingpa, from his Prayer to the Incarnations of the Lord
of Siddhas, Dzogchenpa.30 To this have been added several verses of praise based on actual
fact, without the slightest fabrication or exaggeration, set down by the one called Thubten
Tsöndrü Phuntsok, the ragged monk from the lowest ranks of Rudam Orgyen Samten Chöling,
on the hillside known as Dorje Ling (Darjeeling), near the land of Sikkim, on the 25th
day of the fourth month of the Iron Pig year of the sixteenth calendrical cycle (1971).
Through the merit of this, may the deep devotion of seeing one’s teacher as an actual buddha
and the determination and courage to preserve and develop one’s own lineage compete within
the minds of faithful disciples, so that the present degeneration of the precious buddhadharma
may be overcome, and, without diminishing any further, the teachings may be revitalized
and spread throughout the world, remaining for all eternity! Virtue! Virtue! Virtue!
Sarva maṅgalam!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2006. With many thanks to Dza Kilung Rinpoche for providing the
Tibetan text.

Version: 1.3-20211007
↑ Meaning: Homage to the great guru Pema Rigdzin.↑ Also known as Palgyi Senge of Lang.↑ Langdro
Lotsāwa, one of the disciples of Guru Rinpoche.↑ According to mDo khams rdzogs chen dgon
gyi lo rgyus nor bu’i phreng ba by Gyalwang Nyima, p.7, he was a disciple of Nāropa.↑ Changchub
Gyalpo of Ngendzong was one of the six disciples of Jetsün Milarepa (1052–1135) likened
to the stars and planets. Milarepa’s two main disciples were Gampopa Sonam Rinchen
(1079–1153), who is compared to the sun, and Rechungpa Dorje Drakpa (1085–1161), who is likened
to the moon. See The Life of Milarepa, translated by Lobsang P. Lhalungpa.↑ 1110–1193.
The First Karmapa.↑ Lingje Repa Pema Dorje (1128–1188), a disciple of Phagmodrupa Dorje
Gyalpo (1110–1170).↑ Taklung Thangpa Tashi Pal (1142–1210) was the founder of Taklung Monastery
and the Taklung sub-branch of the Kagyü school.↑ The siddha Orgyenpa Rinchen Pal (1230–1309?)
was the founder of the tradition known as ‘Approach and Accomplishment of the Three
Vajras’, one of the eight chariots of the practice lineage.↑ Je Tsongkhapa (1357–1419).↑
The First Dzogchen Rinpoche (1625–1697).↑ The Second Dzogchen Rinpoche (1699–1758).↑ The
Third Dzogchen Rinpoche (1759–1792).↑ The Fourth Dzogchen Rinpoche (1793–1870).↑ The Fifth
Dzogchen Rinpoche (1872–1935).↑ The Sixth Dzogchen Rinpoche (1935–1959).↑ The First Dzogchen
Pönlop Rinpoche (d. 1726). His reincarnation Pema Sangak Tenzin (1731–1805) was an
important master in the history of the monastery. Many of the later Pönlop Rinpoches passed
away at a relatively early age. The sixth Pönlop, Jikdral Tsewang Dorje, was the brother
of the 16th Karmapa and died in Rumtek at the age of 37. The current incarnation, who was
born and educated at Rumtek, is the seventh in the line.↑ 1647–1710.↑ The First Shechen Rabjam
(b.1650)↑ The First Dodrupchen (1745–1821).↑ Unidentified.↑ Known as the line of Gemang
Tulkus. Following Gyalse Shenphen Thayé, the second Gemang Tulku Thubten Tenpe Nyima died
at a young age, but Khenpo Shenga was later recognized as the principal incarnation of
Gyalse Shenpen Thaye. The Third Gemang Tulku passed away in Dartsedo at the age of 33. The
current incarnation is the fourth.↑ The succession of Kunzang Tulkus.↑ The succession of
Drukpa Tulkus, who are the incarnations of Drukchen Chöying Rolwe Dorje.↑ The succession
of Lingla Kuchen Tulkus.↑ Sengtruk Pema Tashi studied at Mindroling before becoming a khenpo
at Dzogchen Monastery. He was a teacher of Gyalse Shenpen Thaye and Khenpo Pema Vajra.↑
d. 1884. His immediate incarnation was Khenpo Demchok Dorje (b. 1898). The Fifth Dzogchen
Rinpoche was on the way to Lhasa on pilgrimage when he realized that the incarnation of his
teacher had taken birth nearby and went straight to the house of the infant child. Demchok
Dorje studied with the Fifth Dzogchen Rinpoche, Mipham Rinpoche, Khenpo Shenga and other
masters and helped to look after the monastery after the Fifth Dzogchen Rinpoche passed
away. He also helped supervise the reconstruction of the main temple after it burned down
in 1936. The third in the line of incarnations is Tulku Kalsang (b. 1943).↑ The great Khenpo
Shenga (1871–1927).↑ The rainy season retreat (yarné), the bi-weekly practice of confession
(sojong) and the ceremonial conclusion of the yarné retreat (gakyé).↑ https://www.lotsawahouse.org/tibetan-masters/jigme-lingpa/dzogchen-rinpoche-prayer