Fostering Recollection to Dispel the Torment of Deluded Perception
An Aspiration for the Bardos
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

palden lama gyalwa sé dang chepa nam kyi shyab la chaktsal lo
At the feet of the glorious guru, the victorious ones and their heirs, we pay homage.

tsewa chenpö dü tamché du jesu zung shying di chiwar dö trulnang jiktrak tamché lé ukyung shying
bardo rang ngoshepa dang dakpé shying du drenpar jingyi lab tu sol
Care for me at all times with your magnificent love, alleviate all the terrors of deluded perception
during this life, the next and the bardo states, inspire us to recognise the bardos
and lead us to a pure realm, we pray.

sipé tsadung kün lé kyob dzé ching
You protect from all the torridity and torment of conditioned existence,
drenpa tsam gyi ngensong go gekpa
And the mere thought of you closes the door to lower realms,
tarpé lam tön drinchen chö kyi jé
Revealer of the path to liberation, gracious lord of Dharma,
dren chok kyab kündü shyal chenpo khyen
Supreme guide, great face and embodiment of all sources of refuge, care for us!

dakchak tsechik mögü shuk drakpö
As we pray to you with ardent, single-pointed devotion
khashyé ngö kok mepar soldeb na
And without the slightest duplicity or hypocrisy,
di chi bardo küntu tukjé zik
Look upon us with compassion in this life, the next and throughout the bardo states.
lumé kyab kyi nyingpo lama khyen
Guru, essence of unfailing refuge, care for us!

chiwé tsé na néchö minjung shying
When it comes time to die, may we not experience a sudden, painful end,
shepa rang sa zin ching lama la
But instead hold the natural state of awareness
dé mö dungwé solwa deb shyindu
And pray to the guru with yearning faith and devotion,
chikhé dampa lam du longpar shok
While we practically apply the instructions for the moment of death.

detar nyamjé küntu dren shé kyi
Holding the hook of mindfulness and vigilance during meditation and thereafter,
chakkyü zung né trulnang didak nam
May we recognise all these deluded perceptions
bardö nangwa yinpé dushé kyi
As the appearances of the intermediate state
kyeshi bardo lam du khyerwar shok
And thus apply the path to the bardo of birth and death.

nöchü nangwa jitar sharwa nam
No matter how these appearances of outer world and inhabitants may arise,
shar yang denpé tongpé rangshyin du
They are by nature empty.
shé né yidam lha dang yeshe su
Recognising this and transforming them into yidam deities and wisdom,
gyurwé milam bardo lam jé shok
May we apply the path to the bardo of dream.

tsé di nangwa nubpar nyewa na
When the appearances of this life are about to fade away,
lung nga tim shying khorlo nga shyikpé
The five winds will dissolve, the five chakras disintegrate.
lü kyi tob nyam ngak gi dra mi sal
Physical strength will diminish, the sound of voices grow unclear,
dren nyam shepa zazir chowa dang
Memory will deteriorate and consciousness become dim.
wangshé tim shying döyön ro mi nyong
Sensory awareness will fade and objects become imperceptible.
duwa mikgyu mekhyer marmé yi
Then may we recognise the signs—
nangwé tak nam rang ngoshepa dang
Of smoke, haze, fireflies, and lamps—
daka sum gyi dampa lam jé shok
And apply the instruction of the triple moment of passing.1

trawé timrim nang ché tob sum té
The subtle stages of dissolution are appearance, increase and attainment.
ditar namshé nangwa la tim tsé
When consciousness dissolves into appearance,
kar cha tur bab karlam charwa dang
The white element descends and there is total whiteness.
döchak lé gyur tokpa shyibchu gak
The thirty-three thought-states associated with anger cease.2
detsé nangwé yeshe ngö zin shok
At that time may we recognise the wisdom of appearance.

dené nangwa chepa la tim tsé
Then when appearance dissolves into increase,
mar cha gyen yö marlam nangwa char
The red element ascends and there is an experience of total redness.
shyedang lé gyur tokpa so sum gak
The forty thought-states associated with desire cease.
chepé yeshe rang ngoshepar shok
Then may we recognise the wisdom of increase.

dené kar mar bardu namshé gyal
Then, between whiteness and redness consciousness is lost.
timuk lé gyur tokpa dün gak té
The seven thought-states associated with delusion cease,
naklam gyalwar chokpa dé yi tsé
And there is a vision of blackness, approaching unconsciousness.
tobpé yeshe rang ngo zinpar shok
At that time may we recognise the wisdom of attainment.

dené nyertob shyi yi ösal ni
Then, when the ground luminosity of near-attainment dawns,
lo yi yul dé tön nam dangpa tar
Beyond ordinary mental objects and clear as an autumn sky,
char tsé lam gyi ösal bu tabu
May the child-like path luminosity
shyi yi ösalma dang trepar shok
Meet the mother that is the clear light of the ground.

galté dü der gom dri chungwa yi
If, due to our weak familiarity at that stage,
rang ngoma shé dé yi mö nyi la
We fail in recognition, then, in an instant,
sipa bardö nangwa sharwa na
The appearances of the bardo of becoming will dawn,
jikpé dra shyi nyam ngé yangsa sum
And when the four dreadful sounds, three terrifying abysses,
ma ngé tak druk nomja sharwé tsé
And six uncertain experiences arise,
lama lha dang tawa jedren né
May we recollect the guru, the deity and the view,
dakpa khachö shying du kyewar shok
And take rebirth in a pure celestial realm.

galté kyené dzinpar gyur na ang
Even if we are connected to a place of birth,
ngal go ngenpa gak ching chöden gyi
May we close the womb-door of any lesser form of rebirth
ten zang tsal né kham druk denpé lü
And seek the excellent support of a dharma practitioner.
tob né kyé matakpa denyi du
May we gain a form complete with the six elements
geweshé dang jal né dampé chö
And meet a spiritual guide as soon as we are reborn,
manor tsulshyin chöpa nyi gyur chik
So that we may practise the sacred Dharma authentically, without error.

dorna kyé dang tserab tamché du
In short, in all future lives and rebirths
gyalwé ngakpé lam la rab shyuk té
May we follow the path praised by the victorious ones,
tekchen do ngak chö la longchö né
Savour the sūtra and mantra Dharma of the Great Vehicle,
ku shyi drebu ngön du tobpar shok
And realize the fruition of the four kāyas.

Chökyi Lodrö wrote this in response to a request from Gelong Ngawang Paljor.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "bar do'i smon lam dran pa'i gsos 'debs 'khrul snang
gdung sel/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang,
2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 12: 347–349
↑ 'da' ka gsum.↑ There appears to have been some confusion of lines between this and the following
verse, which has been corrected in translation.