Middle Way Aspiration
by Khenchen Shenpen Chökyi Nangwa

mi jé shying gi drenpa shakyé tok
Guiding light of this world, crowning glory of the Śākya clan,
gyalsé tuwo jetsün khyenpé ter
Seniormost of buddha’s heirs, precious wisdom’s treasure,
tenpé tsalak pakpa yabsé sok
Successors to these teachings, noble Nāgārjuna and your spiritual sons,
drowé dren chok nam la chaktsal lo
I prostrate before you all, the supreme of guides for living beings!

tadral umé dön zik sangye kyang
Buddhapālita, you who realized the Middle Way beyond extremes,
changchub chöpé ngadak shyiwa lha
Master of the bodhisattvas’ enlightened actions, Śāntideva,
talgyur shingté sol dzin dawa drak
Upholder of the great tradition of the Prāsaṅgika, Candrakīrti,
güpé dü do tsé chen tuk kyi gong
Respectfully, I bow before you—think of me with great compassion!

dak ni deng né tserab tamché du
From this day on, throughout all my future lives,
daljor lü tob gyalwé ten dang jal
May I gain the freedoms and endowments and meet with buddhas’ teachings.
tsennyi denpé geweshé kyi zin
May I be accepted by an authentic spiritual teacher,
nam sum depé tsulshyin tenpar shok
Whom I follow well, with all three kinds of faith!1

ngedön zabmö do yi gongpa shyin
Having fully received instructions from my supreme and noble guide,
shenyen chok lé lekpar tob né kyang
On the definitive meaning that is the intent of the profoundest sūtras,
sherab sum gyi ten la pabpé tü
May I reach conclusive certainty through the three kinds of wisdom,2
chöjé drangwé depa tobpar shok
And gain the conviction of one who relies upon the Dharma!

dé dang nyingjé chenpö shyi zung né
Taking faith and great compassion as the basis of my path,
kyab kyi yul du könchok mi tong shying
And never forgetting the Three Jewels, the sources of refuge,
tekpa chenpö lam la rab shyuk té
May I embark fully upon the path of the Mahāyāna,
chöma minpé semkyé tobpar shok
And arouse a mind of bodhicitta that is uncontrived!

lü sok yalwar dorwé nyingtob kyi
With the courageous willingness to sacrifice even life and limb,
chinang ngö kün shyen la tongwa dang
May I give away to others all that I own and have within myself,
namdak trim kyi rang gi gyü dam né
And, guarding my mindstream with the purest moral discipline,
chepé tsam lé dawa mepar shok
May I never stray beyond the boundaries of my vows!

nöjé nam la rinchen ter shyindu
Seeing all who do me harm as equal to some priceless treasure,
ga dang güpé yi kyi rab tü dé
May I honour them with a mind of joy and great respect,
nyingjé drangwé mejung chöpa yang
And always, in all my lives to come, may I rely
tserab küntu dak gi tenpar shok
Upon this wondrous conduct born of a noble heart!

rangshyin namdak döndam chö kyi ying
The naturally pure, ultimate space of all phenomena
yömé tröpé yul lerab depa
Is entirely beyond the realm of concepts such as ‘is’ or ‘is not.’
ma tok lokpar tokpé kyön sal té
May my failure to understand and false ideas be cleared away,
chönyi denpa ngönsum tongwar shok
So that I come to see the truth of reality itself directly.

yö dang mepar tawa tröpé ta
Views based on existence and non-existence are limiting ideas,
nyi dang nyimin dzinpa lokpé lo
Clinging to both and to neither is the product of a mistaken mind.
ta shyi trö dang dralwa umé lam
The Middle Way is free from these four extremes of elaboration,
khepé tenpé denyi tongwar shok
May I see this reality that the learned ones have taught!

chinang chö kün dak lé kyemé ching
All outer and inner things are not produced by themselves,
shyen lé mayin nyi dang gyumé min
Or from something else, from both or without cause at all.
jikten rabtu drakpé chö nam la
With regard to all the things that are known in this world,
langdor jukdok tsulshyin jepar shok
May I adopt and avoid, engage in and withdraw from what I should.

dak pung ngowo chik dang tadé sok
May I abandon all falsely conceived notions of a self,
lokpar tokpé dushé künpang té
Thinking it is identical to the aggregates, distinct from them and so on,
nam dün shingté rikpa la ten né
And, through the sevenfold reasoning of the chariot,
ten né takpé ngepa nyepar shok
May I gain certainty that it is but a dependent imputation!

shejé chö kün ngowo döné tong
All knowable things have always been empty by their very essence.
ter zuk né dang chungzé nepa sok
May I now eliminate entirely the pain of conceptual thoughts,
yangdak dön la dribpé dzintang kyi
With their mode of perceiving which obscures genuine reality,
tokpé zukngu drung né jinpar shok
Thinking for example that things abide forever or even partially persist.

do kham ser dang bum nang drön sok kyi
May the excellent meaning that is conveyed through examples
pé yi shyalwé dön zang ngön du gyur
Such as gold within rock, or a lamp inside a vase be revealed.
yab jé palgön lu yi gongpa shyin
According to the vision of the noble father, glorious protector Nāgārjuna,
salam tarchin chöku tobpar shok
And may I complete all the stages and paths to gain the dharmakāya!

detsé chok tar tukpé gyalsé dang
Then may I manifest continuously in many billions of emanations,
men dang chok gi dro kham gyatso la
To all the buddha’s heirs throughout the far reaches of space itself,
rang rang lo dang tünpé dul jé ni
And to infinite oceans of beings of every type, lesser and greater,
jewa trak gyar taktu nangwar shok
Guiding each and every one according to their mind’s capacity!

detar gopang nampar chi kyi bar
From now until I reach that perfect level of attainment,
tserab küntu tadral umé dön
In all my lives, may I realize and skilfully teach to others,
rang gi tok shing shyen la tön khepa
The meaning of the Middle Way beyond all extremes,
palden pakpa lha dang nyampar shok
Become the equal of glorious Āryadeva!

I, the beggar monk Shenpen, made this prayer of aspiration related to the sources of virtue,
so that in this and all my future lives I may uphold the flawless scriptural tradition of
noble Nāgārjuna and his spiritual heirs and teach it to others. May it be virtuous!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2005. Revised 2020.

Source: gzhan phan chos kyi snang ba. "dbu ma'i smon lam/" in gzhung chen bcu gsum.  7 vols.
Delhi: Konchhog Lhadrepa, 1983, 1993. (BDRC W23198) Vol. 5: 569–574

Version: 2.2-20220112
↑ i.e., vivid faith, eager faith and confident faith.↑ i.e., the wisdom born of listening, the
wisdom born of contemplation and the wisdom born of meditation.