Prayer of Aspiration
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om swasti
Oṃ svasti!
chö kün den nyi yermé pa
Wherein all things, the two truths indivisible,
duldral kha tar dakpa yi
Are as pure as an immaculate sky—
changchub sem kyi dorjé la
To the vajra of the awakening mind,
dudral mepar chak gyi’o
Beyond union and separation, I pay homage.

lha dang chepé jikten gyi
Siddhārtha, great sage
tub chen dön kün drubpa dang
For the whole world including the gods,
chomden gönpo öpakmé
Blessed protector Amitābha,
deshek dün dang tsen töpé
Seven bliss-gone buddhas, Bhaiṣajya Guru,
ngensong kün kyob men gyi la
Whose name alone protects from the lower realms,
mitrukpa sok sangye dang
Akṣobhya and all the other buddhas,
pakchok nyingjé wangchuk ché
Sublime and noble Lord of Compassion,
gyalsé jampal pawo sok
Valiant son of the victors, Mañjuśrī,
sempa ché nam gong su sol
And all the other great bodhisattvas, turn your attention towards me!
dak gi mönlam didak nam
Cause these aspirations of mine
nyurdu drubpar dzé du sol
To be swiftly fulfilled, I pray.

jewa dak lü drangmé kyi
May all sentient beings, my very own mothers,
magyur semchen tamché dang
Who have borne my countless billions of bodies in the past,
khyepar daljor di nyi kyi
And especially my gracious mother of this lifetime,
ten zang kyepé drinmo ché
Who bore this excellent support with its freedoms and advantages,
bardö jik lé drolwar shok
All be delivered from the terrors of the intermediate state!

kyené ngenpé gyün dok ching
May they avoid all wretched states of rebirth,
dakpé shying du pemo lé
And instead take birth miraculously from a lotus
dzü kyé gyalwé shyal tong né
In a pure realm, there to behold the face of the buddha
changchub lungten tobpar shok
And receive the prophecy of their own awakening.

galté khorwar kyé gyur kyang
Even if they must take rebirth within saṃsāra,
rik zang daljor lü tob ching
May they join a good family and gain the freedoms and advantages,
kyé ma tak tu chö dang tré
And may they meet the Dharma as soon as they are born,
yangdak shé dang tré gyur chik
And also encounter a pure and authentic spiritual teacher.

pakpé nor gyi chukpa dang
May they be rich with the treasures of nobility,
tori yönten pal nga shying
And possess all the splendid qualities of the higher realms.
kyewa dé yi si gyün chö
May they put an end to further rebirth in conditioned existence
chirmidokpé sa tob shok
And attain the level from which regression is impossible.

dak kyang magyur semchen nam
May I bring sentient beings, my past mothers,
sangye sa la göpa dang
To the state of enlightenment.
tsultrim chökyi drolma ni
And until Tsultrim Chökyi Drolma1
changchub dampa matob bar
Attains the sacred state of awakening,
desi dak ni khorwa dir
May I too remain here in saṃsāra,
mi ngal dön rab drubpa dang
And strive untiringly to be of benefit.
sipé kyön gyi ma gö shing
Untouched by the flaws of worldly existence,
trinlé kha dang nyampar shok
May my activity be as vast as space itself.

tsa gyü lamé jinlab dang
Through the blessings of the root and lineage gurus,
sé ché gyalwé den tob kyi
And the power and truth of the victors and their heirs,
jitar mönpé né dinam
May all these points of aspiration
bemé nyurdu drub gyur chik
Be swiftly and effortlessly accomplished.

dak ni tong tö dren rek kün
May the seed of liberation be planted in all who see me,
tarpé sabön tebpa dang
Hear me, think of me, or come in contact with me in any way.
changchub nyugu rab min né
May the shoots of their awakening develop and mature
ku shyi dré zang tobpar shok
And yield the excellent fruit of the four kāyas.

This heartfelt prayer of aspiration was made on the twenty-sixth day of the second month during
the conjunction of Śrāvaṇa.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols.
Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 12: 263–264
↑ Likely another name for Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö’s mother, who is elsewhere referred
to simply as Tsultrim Tso.