The Truthful Words of a Sage
An Aspiration Prayer from the Exceedingly Secret, Enlightened Heart-Essence of the Ḍākinī
revealed by Do Khyentse Yeshe Dorje

emaho
Emaho!
chöku dor chang longku dorjé sem
Dharmakāya Vajradhara, Saṃbhogakāya Vajrasattva,
tulku drangsong drimé sangwé dak
Nirmāṇakāya Stainless Sage Loktripāla,1
garab shri seng pejung bi ma la
Garab Dorjé, Śrī Siṃha, Padmākara, Vimalamitra,
kündü tsawé lama tötreng tsal
The embodiment of all— root Guru Tötrengtsel
tsa sum lha dang drangsong rigdzin tsok
The deities of the three roots and the assemblies of sages and vidyādharas,
dak gi dentsik drubpé pangpor shyuk
Remain here as witness to the accomplishment of my truthful words.

tokmar trulpa né zung danté bar
Since the dawn of delusion until this moment in time,
si dir dak lü drangmé lang gyur kyang
We have taken countless births in this [conditioned] existence.
tongnyi changchub sem kyi mazinpé
Yet, as we have not seized the mind of emptiness-bodhicitta,
dadung chakdang chingwa dampö ching
We are fettered by the tight shackles of attachment and aversion and
dak ni marik tibpö drib lak kyang
Are still enveloped by the darkness of non-recognition.
lamé tukkyé dü su minpa yi
But by the timely ripening of the guru’s kind aspirations,
dakchak yangsang dorjé lam dang tré
We have met the exceedingly secret indestructible path.
dani chakdang drok lé drolwar shok
May we be freed from the restraints of attachment and aversion this very instant.

drangmé kyewar lé kyi drelpa yi
Connected by the karma of innumerable lives,
tab lam nampar rolpé dechen drok
Companions who enjoy great bliss on the path of skillful means,
jam dang tsewé kyangwé pama dang
Mothers and fathers who nurture us with love and kindness,
damtsik chik tu drelwé dorjé ché
Vajra siblings who are connected by sharing tantric commitments,
tso gyur khakhyab semchen tamché kün
Essentially, all sentient beings pervading space—
lo dok nampa shyi yi gyü kul né
May we invigorate ourselves through the four [thoughts] that turn the mind [toward practice],
tsechik dampé chö la tsöndrü kyé
Develop diligence that is single-pointedly focused on the excellent teachings,
labpa sum gyi yönten tarchin shok
And perfect the qualities of the three trainings!

maha anu atiyoga yi
May the ripening blessings and four empowerments of
min jé jinlab wang shyi ranggyü min
Mahā, Anu, and Ati yoga mature our mind-streams.
kyé dang dzokpé lam chok tarchin né
May we perfect the supreme paths of the creation and perfection stages,
mi nyam dorjé dam la nepar shok
And uphold the vajra commitments without any degeneration.

dechen rang lü gyalwé kyilkhor dzok
May we perfect the maṇḍala of the victors within our own bodies of great bliss—
tsa jong lung chün tiklé lé rung shying
Train the channels, control the energy, and make the essences pliable,
ga shyi yeshe terwé dza namor
Inseparably merging energy and mind through
jorwé lungsem yermé drepar shok
Uniting with the consort who bestows the primordial wisdom of the four joys.

tawa pomé chökü gyalsa zin
May we seize the royal seat of the dharmakāya, the unshifting view,
gompa yengmé trul drol redok dral
Meditate without hope, fear, distraction, and delusion, and
chöpa panglang dralwa chönyi tsal
Conduct ourselves free of rejection and acceptance—
trekchö drebu shyi la dzokpar shok
Resulting in the power of suchness completely cutting through to the ground.

ati lam gyi tsawa ösal né
May we perfect the fundamental points concerning luminosity on the path of Ati,
tögal drönma shyi yi lam chok la
[The meditational stages of] fluctuation, attainment, habituation, stability, and completion
yo tob gom ten tarchin tsal dzok né
Upon the supreme path of the four lamps of leaping-over;
lodral chö zé chenpor sangye shok
May we awaken to the great exhaustion of phenomena devoid of conceptualization.

lam la ma shyuk drelpé semchen kün
May all connected sentient beings who have not embarked on the path
dak gi dü sum sakpé gé tsok dang
Awaken on the greatly glorious and blissful Mount Potala
jedzin mönlam drakpö tu nü kyi
Through the power of this caring and fervent aspiration prayer
dechen pota palrir sangye shok
And my accumulated virtuous actions of the three times.

daknyi kyé kün dorjé lobpön dang
May the vajra masters and vajra companions in all my lifetimes
zablam ga shyi drelpé dorjé drok
Who are connected by the four joys of the profound path
damtsik chikpé checham rigdzin tsok
And the siblings and knowledge holders who share tantric commitments
mindral kyilkhor chik tu khöpar shok
Never part but be established in the same maṇḍala.

natsok tab kyi semchen dönjé ching
May the innumerable billions of emanations
trulpa jewa trak gya drangmé kyi
Who benefit sentient beings through various means
rang rang ké du tabkhé chö tön ching
Skillfully teach the doctrine in their respective languages,
khorwé gyatso dong né trukpar shok
Dredging the depths of the ocean of cyclic existence.

tartuk yabyum tabshé checham sé
May the children of the father and mother— method and wisdom
longku chenpö nyamlen tarchin né
Ultimately perfect the practice of the great saṃbhogakāya.
chöying womin shyönnu bumkü long
May they be liberated as a single maṇḍala
tsombu chik tu yermé drolwar shok
In the Akaniṣṭha space of phenomena, the expanse of the youthful vase body.

chönyi rangshyin nampar dakpa dang
May this aspirational prayer of truthful words be accomplished without obstruction,
chöchen gyundré luwa mepé tü
And the exceedingly secret teachings never wane but flourish far and wide
dentsik mönlam gekmé drub gyur né
Due to naturally pristine suchness and
yangsang tenpa mi nub tar gyé shok
The infallible power of the causes and results of [conditioned] phenomena.

This aspiration prayer, The Truthful Words of the Sage, forms the conclusion of The Exceedingly
Secret, Enlightened Heart-Essence. It is the stainless and unmistaken speech originating
from Pema Tötrengtsel. The words of the exceptionally valuable treasury of the bliss-bestowing
ḍākinī were written down by a son of a noble family.
May the three cycles of The Exceedingly Secret, Enlightened Heart-Essence pervade everywhere
like the rays of the sun. May the powerful blessings of the three roots and the ḍākinīs as
well as the enlightened activities of the guardians be unbound.
Samayā. Guhya. Maṅgalam. Śubham.
Gya gya gya. Emaho.

chö tsul di yang nyidé kyilkhor shyin
May this teaching like the maṇḍala of the sun and moon
chok kyi tadru küntu drak gyur ching
Be renowned throughout every region,
lodrö nangwa rabtu gyé jé né
Cause the light of intelligence to fully expand, and
sangye tenpa dar shying gyepar shok
The teachings of the buddhas to flourish and spread.

This stanza is the vajra words of the Omniscient Longchenpa.

ngowo gyurmé rangjung dorjé ku
May the teachings of the three vajras flourish and spread:
rang dang gakmé changchub dorjé sung
The vajra body of the natural, unchanging essence,
trödral uma jalü dorjé tuk
The vajra speech of the unimpeded, natural enlightened expressions,
dorjé sum gyi tenpa dargyé shok
The vajra mind of the rainbow body, the middle way devoid of elaborations.

Written down by Gyelwang Nyima. Sarva Maṅgalam

| Translated by Ryan Jacobson, Tenzin Choephel, and Tom Greensmith, 2020.

Sources
Ye shes rdo rje. 2009. Smon lam drang srong bden tshig: In Gter chos/_mdo mkhyen brtse ye shes
rdo rje, vol. 2. pp. 627-632. Khreng tu'u: Rdzogs chen dpon slob rin po che. BDRC W1PD89990
______ 1974. Yang gsang mkha' 'gro'i thugs thig las:_Smon lam drang srong bden tshig. In Mdo
mkhyen brtse ye shes rdo rje'i rnam thar, pp. 414-419. Gangtok: Dodrupchen Rinpoche, null.
TBRC W18047.

Version: 1.2-20211019
↑ Stainless Sage (drang srong dri med) is an epithet of Loktripāla, a wrathful form of Vajrapāṇi
as found, for example, in a treasure text revealed by Nyangrel Nyima Özer (1124–1192).