The Sage's Harmonious Song of Truth
A Prayer for the Flourishing of the Non-Sectarian Teachings of the Buddha
by His Holiness the Dalai Lama

ku shyi daknyi künkhyen nyimé nyen
Embodiment of the four kāyas, omniscient Lord Buddha ‘Kinsman of the Sun,’
tsé öpakmé pakchok chenrezig
Amitāyus, Amitābha, supreme and noble Avalokiteśvara,
jamyang sangdak drolma tronyer chen
Mañjughoṣa, Vajrapāṇi the Lord of Secrets, and Tārā who wears a wrathful frown,
gyal dang gyalsé sempé tsok nam dang
The victorious buddhas and all their bodhisattva heirs,

té rab ché dün gyen druk chok nyipo
Seven Great Patriarchs,1 Six Ornaments2 and Two Supreme Ones,3
drubchen gyechu neten chudruk sok
Eighty Mahāsiddhas and Sixteen Arhats4—
ten dang dro la chik tu pen shyepa
All of you who seek only to benefit the teachings and beings,
kyechok sempa malü gong su sol
All you great beings without exception, turn your attention towards us!

tubpa chok gi drangmé kalpa ru
The supreme sage Śākyamuni spent countless aeons
sönam yeshé tsok nyi rabdzok té
Completing the two accumulations of merit and wisdom,
khyentsé nüpa tar sön denpé tü
To attain perfect wisdom, love and capacity. Through the power of this truth,
yongdzok gyalten yün ring bar gyur chik
Long may the complete teachings of the Buddha continue to flourish!

gangri jong su tubten nangwé go
Khenpo Śāntarakṣita, Guru Padmasambhava and the Dharma King Trisong Deutsen,
tokmar jé dzé khen lob chögyal sum
Were the first to open up the land of snowy mountains to the light of Buddha’s teachings.
lopen rigdzin jebang tukkyé tü
Through the power of their aspirations and those of all the translators, paṇḍitas, vidyādharas
and disciples,
gangjong gyalten yün ring bar gyur chik
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!

gyachen ka yi norbü ding khang du
In the treasure-palace that is the Buddha’s extensive teachings,
zabmö drubdé chö kyi ter chenpo
Lie great treasures of Dharma, the profound class of sādhanas,
zab yang nyingtik ö nön rabtu tser
And the Heart-Essence, profound and vast, sparkling with brilliant light.
gangjong gyalten yün ring bar gyur chik
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!

kadak ösal nyingpö longchen por
Within the vast expanse of primordial purity and the essence of luminosity,
khordé chö kün ub chub tekpé tsé
All the phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are perfectly complete—this pinnacle vehicle
kunzang dömé gyalsar dröpé tab
Is the method for reaching the primordial stronghold of Samantabhadra.
gangjong gyalten yün ring bar gyur chik
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!

zabmö ta dang gyachen chöpé gyü
The two major lineages—profound view and vast conduct—
yong dzok dampé dzö nga a ti sha
Are both complete within the treasury of instructions mastered by Atiśa,
gyalwé jungné lé ong dampé sol
The tradition of practical instructions passed on by Dromtön Gyalwé Jungné.
gangjong gyalten yün ring bar gyur chik
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!

denö sum gyi düpé gyalwé ka
The Words of the Buddha gathered in the three scriptural collections were
dampa kyebu sum du lek drikpa
Wonderfully arranged into instructions for beings of the three levels of spiritual capacity,
lha chödün kadam ser gyi treng
As the golden rosary of Kadampa teachings, with their four deities and three sets of texts.5
gangjong gyalten yün ring bar gyur chik
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!

dragyur marpa shyepa dorjé sok
The jewel treasury of the Kagyü teachings is a source of inspiration and blessings,
jinlab jungné kagyü norbü dzö
Coming from the translator Marpa, Milarepa Shepé Dorje and the rest,
tsungmé rimjön kasol mejung ba
A marvellous system of instruction from an unrivalled succession of masters.
gangjong gyalten yün ring bar gyur chik
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!

khordé chö kün lhenkyé sem kyi dang
All the phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are the radiance of the natural mind,
semnyi trödral chökü ngowor tok
And mind itself, free from complexity, is realized as the essence of the dharmakāya.
nangsi khordé künkhyab chakgya ché
This is the great seal, Mahāmudrā, pervading all that appears and exists throughout saṃsāra
and nirvāṇa.
gangjong gyalten yün ring bar gyur chik
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!

chinang rikné do ngak shyung gyé né
Learned masters who guard the Buddha’s teachings through explanation, debate and composition,
ché tsö tsompé tubten kyong khepa
On the key instructions of hundreds of texts for the outer and inner sciences, sūtra and mantra,
lha rik khön tön tsé chen sakyapa
This is the Sakyapa tradition of the great compassionate teachers from the divine family of
Khön.
gangjong gyalten yün ring bar gyur chik
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!

sung ngak nyengyü tsema shyiden gyi
The extremely profound and crucial points of the practice of Lamdré—the Path and its Fruit—,
gyu lamdré bü nyamlen ché zab né
With its four criteria of validity,6 have been passed on in a whispered aural lineage,
naljor wangchuk khyechö dampé sol
The tradition of special instructions coming from Virūpa, the powerful lord of yogins.
gangjong gyalten yün ring bar gyur chik
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!

zabmo umé ta dang nyer drelwé
Teachings of the victorious Lobzang Drakpa, skilfully combining the profound and the clear,
sang chen dorjé tekpé rim nyi lam
By perfectly uniting the profound view of the Middle Way
zabsal pel khé lo zang gyalwé ten
And the two-phase approach of the great and secret Vajra vehicle.
gangjong gyalten yün ring bar gyur chik
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!

denö sum dang gyüdé shyi yi dön
This is the supreme and noble tradition for practising,
yongdzok lam gyi ngowo gorim nam
Without mistake, the essence and gradual stages of the path,
manor nyam su lenpé luk zang chok
Which incorporates all three piṭakas and all four classes of tantra,
gangjong gyalten yün ring bar gyur chik
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!

dogyü shyen dang shé sol mi tsungpé
The combined traditions of Butön and Jonang, the transmission of instruction and realization,
chinang shyen sum dü kyi khorlo yi
For the outer, inner and alternative cycles of the Kālacakra Tantra,
lungtok kabab bu jo luk zung gi
Including unique explanations, not to be found in any other sūtra or tantra.
gangjong gyalten yün ring bar gyur chik
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!

dorna shepé ka ché nam chu dang
In short, may all the teachings of the Buddha in the Land of Snows
drubgyü shingta chi dang shyijé sok
Flourish long into the future— the ten great pillars of the study lineage,7
do ngak zung drel mengak dumé chuk
And the chariots of the practice lineage, such as Shijé (‘Pacifying’) and the rest,
gangjong gyalten yün ring bar gyur chik
All of them rich with their essential instructions combining sūtra and mantra.

tendzin shyabten tuktün gendün nam
May the lives of the masters who uphold these teachings be secure and harmonious!
tenpa khorlo sum gyi kyongwa dang
May the sangha preserve these teachings through their study, meditation and activity!8
ten la depé kyebü sateng khyab
May the world be filled with faithful individuals intent on following these teachings!
rimé gyalten yün ring bar gyur chik
And long may the non-sectarian teachings of the Buddha continue to flourish!

jikten küntu maktruk mugé dang
Throughout all the worlds, may war, conflict, famine and evil thoughts or actions
duktsub samjor ming yang mi drak shing
Be eradicated entirely, so that even their names are no longer heard!
yichen jamden nöchü getsen pel
May the minds of beings be infused with love! May signs of virtue increase throughout the environment
and beings!
dé ga gyatsö chok künkhyab gyur chik
And may an ocean of happiness and wellbeing pervade throughout the whole of space!

dak kyang deng né yongdzok tenpé lam
From this moment on, may I follow the complete path of the teachings,
gyachen semkyé zabmo tawa la
Arouse the vast motivation of bodhicitta, and exert myself
tö sam gompé chik tu tsönpa yi
In study, reflection and meditation upon the profound view,
tral yün ten dé sa la nyur rek shok
So that I swiftly reach the ground of temporary and ultimate happiness!

namkhé té tuk gyurpé semchen chir
For the sake of all sentient beings, who are as infinite as space,
tubwang gyalsé yi ong chöpa la
May I engage in the activity of the buddhas and bodhisattvas,
shyum dang ngen shyen lelo mepa dang
Without ever feeling discouraged or falling prey to laziness,
yiché dünpé tro gé jukpar shok
Always remaining joyful, with confidence and enthusiasm!

dak gi lü dang longchö gewa nam
May my body, my possessions and all my merits,
ma nam dewé gyu ru gyurwa dang
Contribute towards the happiness of beings—my very own mothers,
dedak kün gyi duk kün gang chipa
And may whatever sufferings they are forced to undergo,
dé kün dak la yongsu minpar shok
All ripen directly upon me!

dak ni tong tö dren dang mö jepa
May all who see me, hear my voice, think of me or put their trust in me,
kün kyang dé gé pal la chöpa dang
Experience the most glorious happiness and virtue!
mö dang dek tsok mi nyen drok jepa ang
And may even those who insult, punish, strike or disparage me,
tamché changchub lam gyi kalden shok
Gain the good fortune to set out upon the path to awakening!

dorna jisi nam ga nepa dang
In short, for as long as space endures,
drowé dukngal nepa desi du
And for as long as there is suffering among beings,
dak kyang né té ngö dang gyüpa yi
May I too remain, to bring them benefit and happiness,
pendé jepo nyi du gyurwar shak
In all ways, directly and also indirectly!

The enlightened activity of the transcendent and victorious Buddha—our teacher who embodies
immeasurable compassion, and has seen the nature and the multiplicity of all illusory phenomena—radiates
everywhere, as far as space itself. His complete teachings of the Hīnayāna,
Mahāyāna and Secret Mantra have become the most beloved treasures of Tibetan practitioners.
The various traditions have developed their own specific names and terminology, according
to how they have been preserved and spread by various great masters and holders of the
teachings who made powerful aspirations for the preservation of the Buddhadharma. This is
a prayer for these precious non-sectarian teachings of the Buddha to remain without declining
in the Land of Snows, and spread widely even in this final age, as a glorious expression
of the merit of beings. For a while now, I myself have thought that there should be an
aspiration prayer such as this, and then I was also requested to compose one by Bardrok Chuzang
Trinley Gyatso, the incarnation of Phadampa Sangye, and by several others with faithful
aspirations. In particular, I received a request from Dzarong Zhadeu Trulshik Ngawang
Chökyi Lodrö Rinpoche, the great upholder of the Vinaya, who maintains and furthers the transmission
of vows for the Lower Vinaya (Medül) lineage coming from Lachen Gongpa Rabsel,
and who clarifies the Ngagyur Nyingma teachings and enthusiastically takes the non-sectarian
buddhist teachings to heart. So, as someone who has developed faith through learning something
of the Dharma taught by the Buddha, and who has devotion and pure perception towards
all the non-sectarian teachings of the victorious one, I, the buddhist monk Tenzin Gyatso,
who diligently pursues study, reflection and meditation, wrote this prayer 2543 years
after the Buddha’s parinirvāṇa, in the Tibetan year 2126, on the thirteenth day of the first
month of the Earth Hare year in the seventeenth calendrical cycle (28th February 1999),
at Thekchen Chöling Monastery, Dharamsala in the Kangra district of the state of Himachal
Pradesh in the noble land of India.
May the buddhas and bodhisattvas grant their blessings so that this prayer may be fulfilled!
And may virtue and goodness increase!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2005. Many thanks to Matthew Pistono for his helpful suggestions.

Version: 1.3-20210817
↑ Mahākāśyapa, Ānanda, Śāṇavāsika, Upagupta, Dhītika, Kṛṣṇa and Mahāsudarśana.↑ Nāgārjuna and
Āryadeva (the ornaments of mādhyamika), Asaṅga and Vasubandhu (the ornaments of abhidharma)
and Dharmakīrti and Dignāga (the ornaments of pramāṇa).↑ Guṇaprabha and Śākyaprabha.↑
The Sixteen Arhats, or literally Elders (Sthaviras), were Aṅgaja, Ajita, Vanavāsin, Kālika,
Vajrīputra, Śrībhadra, Kanakavatsa, Kanakbhāradvāja, Bakula, Rāhula, Kṣudrapanthaka, Piṇḍolabhāradvāja,
Panthaka, Nāgasena, Gopaka and Abheda.↑ The four deities are Śākyamuni, Avalokiteśvara,
Tārā and Acala. The three sets of texts are the three pitakas: vinaya, sūtra
and abhidharma.↑ Valid scripture (lung tshad ma), valid commentaries (bstan bcos tshad ma),
valid teachers (bla ma tshad ma) and valid experience (nyams myong tshad ma).↑ Thönmi Sambhota,
Bairotsana, Kawa Peltsek, Chokru Lu’i Gyaltsen, Shyang Yeshe De, Dromtön Gyalwa Jungné,
Rinchen Zangpo, Ngok Lotsawa Loden Sherab, Sakya Pandita and Gö Khukpa Lhetse.↑ These
are the three ‘wheels’ or spheres of dharmic activity: the study sphere of listening and
reflection, the renunciation sphere of meditation and the action sphere of spiritual work.