The Jewelled Rosary
An Aspiration Toward Longed-for Aims
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

lama nam dang palden birwapa
All the gurus, including glorious Virūpa,
tsewa chenpo sönam tsemo dang
The great benevolent one,1 Sonam Tsemo,
drakpa gyaltsen sakya pandita
Drakpa Gyaltsen, Sakya Paṇḍita,
lodrö gyaltsen ngorchen künga zang
Lodrö Gyaltsen, Ngorchen Kunga Zangpo,
losal gyatso khyentsé wangchuk dang
Losal Gyatso, Khyentse Wangchuk,
jamyang khyentsé loter wangpo sok
Jamyang Khyentse, Loter Wangpo and the rest,
sung ngak gyüpé lama tamché dang
All you gurus of the lineage of Lamdré teachings,
gyepa dorjé lhamo gyé dangché
Together with Hevajra and the eight goddesses,
tutob wangchuk gönpo chamdral sok
Mighty lord Mahākāla, consort and retinue, and others,
dak la gong shing mönpé né didak
Turn your wise attention towards me, and
nyurdu drub la pangpor dzö chik kyé
Be a witness to the swift fulfilment of these points of aspiration. Kyé!

dak ni bakmepa yi wang du gyur
As I have fallen under the power of carelessness,
chö shyin chö la galkyen ché mang shying
My dharmic practice has been beset by adversity,
khyepar tsul min namtok tsubma yi
And my turbulent, mistaken thoughts in particular
dak gyü lé su rungwar magyurpé
Have prevented my character from becoming workable,
deng né rangsem dul la tsönpar shok
Henceforth, therefore, may I strive to tame my mind.

nyönmong pelwé né dang drok pang shing
May I avoid companions and places that inflame emotion,
döyön dü kyi yabmö ma khyer war
Ignore the beckoning demons of the sensory pleasures,
chö tün chöpé drok dang zegö sok
And remain content with dharma-practicing friends
tsowa ngen ngön tsam gyi chok shé shok
And modest food, clothing and other necessities.

dönmé ngak khyal chakdang pelwé gyu
Meaningless chatter triggers attachment and aversion.
nyepé rangshyin mawa ché né su
Having put a stop to speech that is by nature harmful,
chö tün tam gyi jorwa nyung ngu lé
Aside from brief messages with purely dharmic content,
taktu khatön jé la tsönpar shok
May I strive to maintain only continuous recitation.

ngejung changsem yangdak tawa dang
May I never be without renunciation, bodhicitta,
namyang mindral tsultrim pünsum tsok
And the genuine view, uphold perfect ethics,
dé dang mögü lama nyepar jé
Delight the guru out of faith and devotion,
chi jé changchub chö la gyurwar shok
And transform all that I do into bodhisattva conduct.

tünmong tünmin dompa sok tar sung
May I guard the common and uncommon vows as I would my own life-force,
lama kyilkhor tsowor shepa yi
And through the power of exerting myself in the path of the two stages in four sessions,
rim nyi tün shyi lam la tsönpé tü
With the knowledge that my guru is the chief deity of the maṇḍala,
mejung ku shyi gopang nyur tob shok
May I swiftly attain the level of the wondrous four kāyas!

lam gyi nyingpo zabmo wang shyi lam
Through repeated practice of the way of the four empowerments,
yang yang gompé ku shyi tendrel drik
The profound heart of the path, may I create the auspicious conditions for the four kāyas,
dorjé lü kyi kyilkhor ngöngyur né
And having actualized the maṇḍala of the vajra body,
gyepa dorjé si sum garjé shok
May I dance as Hevajra throughout the three worlds!

Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö, who is dedicated to the precious Lamdré teachings, made this aspiration
with single-pointed devotion while practising guru yoga as preliminary to the Hevajra recitation.
May it be fulfilled swiftly and without obstruction!  Maṅgalam!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "'dod pa'i don la smon lam rin po che'i phreng ba/"
in 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986.
Vol. 12: 293–294

Version: 1.0-20210827
↑ I.e., Sachen Kunga Nyingpo, who is often referred to as brtse ba chen po.