The Swift Fulfilment of Wishes
A Prayer of Aspiration
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

namo guru
Namo guru!
tsa sum kündü guru pema jung
Padmākara, universal embodiment of the Three Roots,
ngö chik dumé gar gyur tsen chok gyé
One in reality yet diverse in manifestation—the Eight Supreme Emanations,
tötreng dé nga drakpo marnak dang
The five classes of Tötreng, wrathful and dark red in colour,
namtrul chunyi trul tsen shyibchu sok
The twelve primary and forty secondary manifestations, and the rest—
ngotsar trulpa jewa trak gya dang
All you wondrous emanations in your hundreds of billions,
jebang nyernga so zur nub nyak nyang
Together with the twenty-five disciples, Nub, Nyak and Nyang,
chö wang gödem longchen min ter sok
Chöwang, Gödem, Longchenpa, Minling Terchen,
kater rigdzin gyüpa tamché dang
And all the other vidyādharas of the kama and terma lineages,
dzamling dzé gyen mejung lobpön tsok
As well as the wondrous ācāryas who beautifully adorned this world,
da zang lasok chögyal rikden tsok
All the Kulika Dharma Kings, such as Sucandra,
drub gyé tsukgyen dramzé sara ha
The brahmin Saraha, crown ornament among a hundred siddhas,
birwapa dang dombi lu nak dril
Virūpa, Ḍombi, Lūyipa, Kṛṣṇācārya, Ghaṇṭapāda,
té lo na ro mai tri lasok dang
Tilopa, Nāropa, Maitripāda, and the rest,
jo ngok drom dang kuché nampa sum
Together with Jowo Atiśa, Ngok Lekpé Sherab and Dromtönpa, as well as the Three Brothers,1
lang shar nyi sok kadam gyüpa dang
Langri Thangpa, Sharawa Yönten Drak and all the other masters of the Kadam lineage,
drok mi sa chen sönam tsemö shyab
Drokmi Lotsāwa, Sachen Kunga Nyingpo, Sönam Tsemo,
drak gyal penchen chö pak ngor tsar dzong
Drakpa Gyaltsen, the great Sakya Paṇḍita, Chögyal Pakpa, Ngorchen, Tsarchen and Dzongpa,2
sakyé tendzin gyüpar chepé tsok
And the all the hosts of lineage-holders of the Sakya teachings,
jamyang lama lo zang drakpa dang
Mañjughoṣa guru Lobzang Drakpa,
tuksé nam sum lasok ser ri treng
The three heart-sons and the rest—like a chain of golden mountains,
marpa mi la nyammé dakpo dang
Marpa, Mila, peerless Dakpo,
ré chung pak dru dri tak drukpa sok
Rechungpa, Pakmodrupa, and all the learned and accomplished ones
kagyü norbü treng dzé khedrub tsok
Of the Drikung, Taklung, Drukpa and so on—the beautiful jewelled garland of Kagyü masters,
tsödü künkhyen nyipa rinchen drub
Butön Rinchen Drup, who was like a second Omniscient One for this age of strife,
dolpo sangye kün ga nyingpo sok
Dolpo Sangye, Tāranātha Kunga Nyingpo and the rest—
sang ngak gyüdé ter chang kyé chen dang
Great beings, holders of the tantric treasures of Secret Mantra,
khyepar kabab dünden khyentsé wang
And especially Khyentse Wangpo, holder of the Seven Modes of Transmission,
dzö ngé shingta lodrö tayé shyab
Lodrö Thayé, pioneer of the Five Treasuries,
sang ngak ka yi düpo lo ter wang
Loter Wangpo, compiler of the words of Secret Mantra,
bai ro ngö nang shyenpen tayé jé
Lord Shenpen Thayé, who was Vairotsana in person,
orgyen jikme chö kyi wangpo dang
Orgyen Jigme Chökyi Wangpo,
mawé sengé mipam nampar gyal
The lion of speech, Mipham Namgyal,
kadrin chewé yongdzin dampé gön
My most gracious teacher, the sublime protector,
tsa gyü lamé kyilkhor lhatsok dang
And all the deities of the maṇḍalas of the root and lineage gurus,
gyüdé shyi druk yidam shyitrö tsok
Hosts of peaceful and wrathful yidams of the four or six classes of tantra,
né sum pawo khandro chökyong dang
Ḍākinīs and vīras of the three abodes, dharma guardians,
norlha terdak karchok kyong khor ché
Wealth deities, treasure keepers, and guardians of the virtuous together with your retinues,
khyepar tubwang men lhami trukpa
Especially the Lord of Sages, Buddha of Medicine, Akṣobhya,
dorjé sempa nyesé drolma dang
Vajrasattva, the Close Sons, Tārā,
neten chenpo chudruk lasokpa
Sixteen Elders, and the rest—
kyabné tukjé chen nam gong su sol
All you compassionate sources of refuge, turn your wisdom minds toward me,
khyentsé yeshe chen gyi zik su sol
Look upon me with your wisdom vision of knowledge and care.

dak gi lé ngen dik sak drebu min
I have amassed negative, harmful actions and now experience their effects.
lü sem dé trok né kyi zukngü nar
I am bereft of physical and mental wellbeing and suffer the pains of illness.
chima ngensong dukngal nyong ré ren
In the next life, I will confront the sufferings of the lower realms.
nyamtak dindrar gongpar dzé né kyang
Having considered this unfortunate plight of mine,
jampé chak gi kyobpar dzé du sol
Please protect me with your hands of loving kindness, I pray.

shyen gyi dikduk dak la min gyur né
Let others’ misdeeds and sufferings ripen on me,
denam dewa püntsok tobpar shok
And let them enjoy happiness in great abundance.

ming tsam töpé drelwar gyurpa nam
May all who are connected to me through merely hearing my name
namdrol changchub lamzang nyepar shok
Discover the excellent path that leads to liberation and awakening.

dak kyang dümin chiwé mi tsé shing
May I not suffer an untimely death but complete my lifespan.
tsé tarchin ching samdön kün drub né
And may all my wishes and intentions be fulfilled.
kuntuzangpö mönlam dzok jé shing
May I perfect the aspirations of Samantabhadra
bardu chöpé dü kyi mitsuk shok
And not fall prey to obstacle-making demons.

go sum ngö dang gyü né tenpa dang
Directly and indirectly, may I teach with body, speech and mind,
semchen kün la pendé jin gyur ching
And provide benefit happiness for all sentient beings.
gyalwé chö tsul drima mepa dak
And may there be no impediment as I uphold and transmit
dzin chang pel la tokpa mepar shok
The immaculate ways of the Dharma of the Victorious Ones.

chok sum rinpoche yi denpa dang
By the truth of the three most rare and precious Jewels,
tsawa sum gyi tu jin nü tob kyi
And the powerful blessings and force of the Three Roots,
mönpé né di gekmé drubpa dang
May these points of aspiration be fulfilled without obstacle
ten dang tendzin dar shying gyepar shok
And the teachings and their holders prosper and flourish!

Thus, Chökyi Lodrö wrote this for his own sake in Darjeeling on the second ‘joy’ of Saga Dawa.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "smon lam bsam don myur 'grub" in ’Jam dbyangs chos
kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 12: 265–267
↑ Potawa, Chengawa and Puchungwa.
↑ I.e., Dzongpa Kunga Gyaltsen (1382–1446).