The Thirty Aspirations
by Padampa Sangye

namo guru
Namo guru!
dakshyen nam kyi gyü la gyüden lamé jinlab jukpar gyur chik
May the blessings of a master endowed with a spiritual lineage enter my own and all other beings’
minds.
dön gyi ngo trö né du chüpar gyur chik
May we recognise the ultimate meaning that has been introduced.
tokpa chi tawa shyindu gyü la kyewar gyur chik
May this realisation dawn perfectly within us.
tob chu mi jik lungten tobpar gyur chik
May we receive a prophecy concerning both fearlessness and the ten powers.
tatang drub ching tendrel charwar gyur chik
May auspiciousness wax and superficiality wane.
dro nam mindrol gyi lam la gö nüpar gyur chik
May we have the ability to place all beings on the path of ripening and liberation.
salam dentok chik tu drö nüpar gyur chik
May we have the ability to traverse the grounds and paths in a single sitting.
sherab kyi chen gyi chönyi kyi denpa tongwar gyur chik
May the eyes of our wisdom come to see the truth of dharmatā.
yönten lodab shyin tu gyepar gyur chik
May our virtues grow like leaves in springtime.
drebu paksam shyin tu minpar gyur chik
May fruition ripen like a wish-fulfilling tree.
mögü rirab shyin tu tenpar gyur chik
May our devotion be as stable as Mount Meru.
ngepé shepa tetsom dang dralwar gyur chik
May we have certainty, free from any doubt.
lé kyi tro sé né mönlam nampar dakpar gyur chik
May our aspirations be pure, as we experience the ripening of good karma.
goché jikten gyi drima dakpar gyur chik
May the armour [of our perseverance] be free of mundane defilement.
drubpa la barché mé ching katub tsampar gyur chik
May we have the ability to endure hardship and our practice be free from obstacle.
tsa lung tiklé lé su rungwar gyur chik
May our channels, winds and drops be pliable.
taktu sampa nampar dakpar gyur chik
May we continually have pure intentions.
changsem la nyampa mepar gyur chik
May our bodhicitta never degenerate.
tekchen gyi ta gom nyam su nyongwar gyur chik
May we experience the view and meditation of the Mahāyāna.
nyinang gi shepa rang sar drolwar gyur chik
May our dualistic mind be naturally liberated.
rik khyepar chen tu kyewar gyur chik
May we be born into a noble family line.
gyüden lamé jesu dzinpar gyur chik
May we be cared for by a master of [the sublime] lineage.
lékyi ta mi lokpar gyur chik
May our conduct never be unwholesome.
sherab sum la lo jongwar gyur chik
May we train our minds in the three types of knowledge.1
wang gi jinlab jukpar gyur chik
May we receive the blessings of empowerment.
dewa dorjé tabur tobpar gyur chik
May we attain the vajra-like bliss.
namshé tsalung la rangwang tobpar gyur chik
May we come to master consciousness, the channels and subtle energies.
rang lü zukku drubpar gyur chik
May we accomplish the rūpakāya as our own body.
chöku ngönsum du tokpar gyur chik
May we realise the dharmakāya directly.
tulku trinlé kyi shyendön ta ru chinpar gyur chik
With the activities of the emanation-kāya, may we perfectly accomplish others' welfare.

| Translated by Sean Price, 2021.
↑ Possibly the knowledge born of listening, knowledge born of contemplation, and knowledge born
of meditation.