The Magical Lasso
A Prayer of Aspiration to Accomplish Khecara
by Lelung Shepé Dorje

emaho
Emaho!
nang drak gyuwé chö nam kün
All phenomena which appear, resound, and pass through the mind
jogek lhamö namgyur du
Are the appearances of the charming goddess,
chiryang rolpé gyutrul chen
Who magically displays as anything whatsoever:
rangrig chakgya chenmor dü
To the reflexive awareness of the Great Seal Mahāmudrā, I bow down.

tokta mepé dorjé sem
Through the vajra mind, which has neither beginning nor end
khordé kün la khyabpa yi
And which pervades the whole of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
ching dang drol dzé dé dang der
You manifest in untold ways for those who are bound and set free—
chiryang charwé lhatsok gong
Assembly of deities, please consider me!

dak ni tokma mepa né
Throughout beginningless time,
künné tripé nampar truk
I have been plagued by my [mental] entanglements,
lé nyön sawé shyakpé ching
And the intractable lasso of karma and afflictions has tightened around me,
nyamtak khorwé né su khyam
As I wander through the destitute abodes of saṃsāra.

dani jikpé yi dung té
Now my mind is tortured by fear,
kyabné khyé nam malakpé
So from the depth of my heart, I take refuge in you,
tsowo shyendu kyab ma chi
For there are no principal protectors other than you,
nying né khyö la kyab su chi
The sources of refuge!

dungwé mik né chima truk
Tears flood from my despairing eyes;
kyowé mengak shuk ring jin
I cry out in sorrow and sigh deeply;
zömé nying lung khong né lang
And an unbearable melancholy arises from within;
solwa debpa di zik sam
Can you not perceive this supplication of mine?

kyema dak ni khyö sam né
Alas, I have been thinking of you
nyintsen lewar machipar
Uninterruptedly, day and night.
dungwé kyab su rewa la
And so, will you not compassionately consider
tukjé gongpar mi dzé dam
My yearning hope for refuge?

ting ta mepé gyatso dir
In this bottomless and boundless ocean,
né ché jikpé tsepé dü
When its inhabitants are oppressed by fear,
ukyung zengtö mi dzé na
If you do not provide respite and encouragement,
khyö kyi tukjé chishyik ja
What is the use of your compassion?

yün ring dü né drubpa yi
As I have engaged in your practice for a long time,
ma chik lhamo khyé nam kyi
Sole mother goddess,
dzé shyal namkhé jé drowa
Will you not deign to reveal just a tiny portion of
zur tsam tönpar mi nang ngam
Your exquisite face that resembles the sky?

lé nyön sawé chang tak di
This tight collar of karma and mental afflictions,
pen dzé tukjé raldri yi
If you do not swiftly act to sever it
nyurdu chöpar mi dzé na
With the beneficial sword of compassion,
khyö kyi tukdam mi nyam sam
Would this not undermine your sacred commitments?

khyö kyang ngön gyi dü kyi tsé
When even in your previous lives,
dak tar mongpa shyik lak na
You were once deluded like me;
go sum mi shé bakmepé
If, through unawareness and carelessness of my three doors,
nongpar tuk kyang truk mi tsal
I make mistakes, there is no need to be upset.

shintu tsokpé kyalpa la
How could the excellent nature arise
rangshyin zangpo chi la char
In such a filthy leather bag [as this body]?
dechir dak gi nongpa nam
Compassionate one, for this reason,
zöpar shyé shik tukjé chen
Please be patient with the mistakes I have made!

tsa sum lha yi khorlo né
Bless me so that I may be benefitted
bempö namgyur tsünché kyi
By whatever manifestations are appropriate,
köpa gang la gang tsampé
From the maṇḍalas of Three Root deities
dak la penpar jingyi lob
Down to expressions of inanimate form!

zuk su nangwé ngöpo kün
As all things which visibly appear
tongwa tsam gyi yitrok pé
Arise as the display of the lovely and beautiful goddess,
dzé duk lhamö rolpar shar
Whose mere glance is enchanting;
dechen barwar jingyi lob
Please bless me that the great bliss blazes forth!

zin dang ma zin dra nam kün
As all sounds, whether natural or deliberately produced,
drak tong ngak kyi khorlor jong
Manifest as the wheel of mantra—sound and emptiness,
lung ngak nyi su michepé
Please bless me so that the power of
nüpa babpar jingyi lob
The indivisibility of prāṇa and mantra arises!

toktsok gangshar nangwa kün
Let whatever conceptual patterns arise, all appearances,
ngönsu jechö mepar deng
Dissipate without being anticipated or pursued;
rang sar shyakpé chökur drol
And as I allow them to rest in their own place, so that they are liberated in the dharmakāya,
tokpa barwar jingyi lob
Please bless me so that realisation may blaze forth!

né sum khandro ma lüpa
May all ḍākinīs of the three worlds
rangwang mepar drok su khuk
Be summoned irresistibly as companions;
yi kyi rewa kong jepé
Please bless me that they may grant the attainments
ngödrub tsolwar jingyi lob
That fulfil the hopes within my mind!

damchen gyatso malüpé
Let the ocean of oath-bound ones, without exception,
galkyen barché tamché sel
Clear away all adversity and obstacles.
rabjam trinlé nampa shyi
Please bless me that they may accomplish, without hindrance,
tokmé drubpar jingyi lob
The infinite array of the four types of enlightened activity!

zang ngen kyen gyi jedrak kün
Let the variety of good and bad conditions
tamché ro chik gyen du shar
Arise as the ornament of one taste.
dem ngö gak drub mepa yi
Please bless me to practice the yogic conduct
tulshyuk chöpar jingyi lob
In which there is no preference for cultivating or rejecting.

nangwa tongpé tsal du shar
As appearances arise as the dynamic expression of emptiness,
tongpa tendrel nyi du ngé
And emptiness is ascertained as dependent arising itself,
zungjuk chok shyak chenpor jam
Please bless me [to attain] the Great Perfection
dzogpachenpor jingyi lob
And merge into the great, freely resting union.

yingrik kadak chenpo dang
The great primordial purity of space-awareness
tsalnang lhündrub tögal nyi
And the spontaneously accomplished manifestation of dynamic energy, Leaping Over—
rejok chokrer magolwé
Please bless me that I may practice the excellent path
lamzang chöpar jingyi lob
That does not stray into favouring one practice over another.

dangpor chönyi nangwa shar
First, the vision of dharmatā arises,
bardu nangwé chok künkhyab
Then, the visions extend in all directions,
tamar kün kyang ying su tim
Finally, everything dissolves into space;
drol sar chinpar jingyi lob
Please bless me to reach the state of liberation!

né chok pemo kö lasok
In the naturally manifesting buddha-fields of Akaniṣṭha
né sum khandro kün duwé
And places where all ḍākinīs of the three worlds gather,
rangnang womin shying nam su
Supreme holy sites, such as Pemokö,
dro dön kyongwar jingyi lob
Please bless me to attend to beings’ benefit!

dü sum gyalwa tamché kyi
Please bless me that I may tame
ngönsum dulwar ma nüpé
All beings of lesser fortune, however many there are,
kal men kyewo jinyepa
Those whom all the victorious ones of the three times
dak gi dulwar jingyi lob
Are incapable of taming directly!

namkha zepar magyur par
Please bless me that I may carry out the benefit of beings,
kyo ngal mepé chöpa yi
Tirelessly and without discouragement,
peldrib mepa drowé dön
Without my actions waxing and waning,
dak gi chöpar jingyi lob
Until space itself fades away!

dak ni tong dang töpa dang
May all those who see or hear me,
ming tsam dzinpar jepa yang
Or even merely recall my name,
kham sum khorwa dongtruk té
Be delivered from the depths of saṃāra’s three realms.
cham chik drolwar jin gyi lob
Bless me that I may simultaneously liberate them all!

gangshyik penpar sempa dang
Bless me to train those whose minds are altruistic,
tangnyom barma dak kyang rung
As well as those with feelings of indifference,
nyé mö dek tsok tsang druwa
And especially those who would disparage others,
lhakpar dulwar jingyi lob
Or abuse them and expose their hidden faults.

duk sum drakpö gyü bak shing
The beings whose mind streams are sullied by the intense three poisons,
ngensong sum dang khyepardu
And those who experience the suffering of the three lower realms,
bardö dukngal la chöpé
And in particular the suffering of the intermediate state;
drowa dulwar jingyi lob
Please bless me so that I may tame them all!

rigdzin pema jungné dang
Please bless me so that my mind may be of one taste
tuk kyi gongpar ro chikpé
With the enlightened wisdom mind of Vidyādhara Padmasambhava,
namtar nyampar chöpa yi
And I may thereby accomplish the two aims
dön nyi drubpar jingyi lob
Through conduct that is comparable to his life of liberation!

dak ni galté tsé di la
If I do not seize
tsensa zinpar magyur na
The citadel [of enlightenment] in this life,
namshyik chiwé dü kyi tsé
Then, when I reach the moment of death,
khyé nam suwé chir shek shik
May you all come back to welcome me.

shyal gyi kyilkhor salpor tön
May you clearly reveal the maṇḍala of your face,
ukyung sung gi nangwa tsol
Bestow the elucidation of your comforting speech,
tsedung dzawé tukjé zung
Embrace me with your compassion of love, affection, and friendliness,
ösal dewa chenpor drong
And lead me to the great bliss of luminosity.

trulwé nangwar até pé
When the terrors of the intermediate state arise
bardö jiktrak sharwa na
As deluded perception solidifies,
dün sü gyab kyor ta né ten
Be a welcome in front, a support behind, and an assistance all around.
trulpa tamché rang sar kyong
Keep all delusions in their own place!

bardor drolwar magyur na
If I am not liberated in the intermediate state,
trulpé shyingkham natsok su
May I be born on the stem of a lotus
pemé dongpo lé kyé té
In various emanated pure lands,
tsen dang denpé lü tob shok
And may I obtain a body endowed with the marks of enlightenment!

chen dang ngönshé zung pob sok
Through the limitless gates of meditative absorption,
tingdzin go gya tayepé
Including the divine eye, clairvoyance, retention, and eloquence,
dak gyü lhakpar chukpa dang
May my mind stream become abundantly enriched,
trinlé nam shyir wangjor shok
And may I gain mastery over the four kinds of enlightened activity!

jung shyi nöpé mi dzi shying
May I not fall victim to harm from the four elements,
chimé dorjé ku drub té
And may I accomplish the deathless vajra-body,
dorjé tekpé naljor gyi
And thus complete the paths and stages of maturation and liberation
mindrol salam tarchin shok
Of the Vajrayāna yoga!

dorna nekab tamché du
In brief, may the ocean of ḍākinīs grant their blessings,
rang dang shyen gyi dön gang yin
That I may accomplish
tamché khandro gyatso yi
All that is beneficial to myself and others
yelmé drubpar jingyi lob
In all circumstances without ever wavering!

dü sum sakpé gé tsok dang
Through the accumulation of virtue gathered throughout the three times,
khyepar tsa sum lhatsok kyi
And in particular, the power of the truth of the inconceivable compassion
tukjé sam gyi mi khyabpé
Of the Three Roots and the assembly of the deities,
den tü mönlam nyur drub shok
May these aspirations be swiftly accomplished!

chönyi sam gyi mi khyab kyang
Although dharmatā is inconceivable,
chöchen tendrel mi luwé
The truth never changes,
denpa gyurwa mepa dé
Since the dependent arising of conditioned phenomena is infallible;
chi tab mönlam drubpar shok
Thus, may any aspirations I have formulated be accomplished!

In order to fulfil the insistent request of Trinlé Losal, who holds a singular devotion to all
the oceans of ḍākinīs who pervade all of space, I, Chagpa Dorjé the aimless yogin, wrote
“The Magical Lasso: An Aspirational Prayer” that spontaneously summons all the oceans of
ḍākinīs of the three worlds. It was composed at the camp of Düdül Dewa Chenpo (Demon-Taming
Great Bliss) in the vicinity of the palace of the lord of the Lo people. This area belongs
to the heart dharmacakra, one of five cakras of the retinue of Pemokö, the supreme emanated
realm of Akaniṣṭha. May there be happiness and well-being!

| Translated by Tom Greensmith, Tenzin Choephel and Ryan Jacobson, 2021.

Source: Bzhad pa'i rdo rje. 1983–1985. “mkha' spyod grub pa'i smon lam 'phrul gyi zhags pa sogs.”
In gsung 'bum/_bzhad pa'i rdo rje, vol. 7, pp. 421–428. Leh: T. Sonam & D.L. Tashigang.
BDRC W22130

Version: 1.0-20210825