Threefold Aspiration for Rebirth in Zangdok Palri
by Chokgyur Dechen Lingpa

om ah hung
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ.
di né nyima lhonub chok dak na
South from where the sun sets to the West of here lies
khachö dakpa palri shyingkham shyuk
The Glorious Mountain’s pure celestial realm,
sin ling gyé kyi ü na rinpoche
A heart-shaped jewel amid eight rākṣasa isles.
tsitté yib dra tsemo rinchen nga
On its peak, a mansion boundless, made of five gems,

shyalmé khangchen chirol zangtal ni
Opens wide on vast grounds of five pleasures possessed:
khoryuk ngaden pang jong dütsi dzing
Green meadows, ponds of nectar, and forests where stay
jönshing ja dang ridak khandrö né
Ḍākinīs, birds and deer beneath skies filled with rays
to chi ja ö lha dang lha mö chö
Of rainbows and gift-bearing gods and goddesses.

podrang tengok pejung dorjé chang
Inside the palace, Vajradhara Lotus-Born
ku nga tsen gyé jebang nyernga dang
Is King Raksha Tötreng, with five kāyas, eight forms,
rigdzin pomo yidam lha yi tsok
The king, twenty-five subjects, myriad deities,
raksha tötreng gyalpö tsul du shyuk
Vidyādhara lords and ladies on all stories.

khandro chösung ging dang langka dang
Ḍākinīs, guardians, kiṃkaras, rākṣasas and
drekpa pomo tamché ponyar gyé
Drekpas male and female as envoys he commands.
dé na nedön dra dré ming mi drak
Unheard of are ails, evil, foes and demons here,
zegö tsoldrub mi gö lhün gyi drub
And food and clothes without wait or effort appear.

shying chok dé na dak sok möpé lö
As longing for this blessed land fills our hearts,
mögü dungwa drakpö solwa deb
With fierce, yearning devotion together we pray:
dak sok namshyik tsé pö gyur ma tak
When our time has come for this life to depart,
shying chok dé na yongsu dröpar shok
May all reach the supreme pureland without delay!

deyang sinpö ngal du mi kyé shying
Once there, let us not take birth from rākṣasa wombs,
khoryuk dütsi dzingbü nang dak tu
But amid the surrounding amṛta-filled pools,
u dum wa ré nang du dzü kyé té
From blue lotuses be spontaneously born.
kyé ma tak tu metok kha jé né
And instantly may the flowers open so we
rigdzin pomö dral du chin né kyang
Join the ranks of vidyādhara lords and ladies
pema jungné shyal chok tongwar shok
Beholding the countenance of the great Lotus-Born!

tong né wangkur chö tob lungten né
Then, through empowerment, teaching, and prophecy,
guru pemé gopang nyur tob shok
The state of Guru Padma may we reach swiftly,
lar yang khakhyab drowa dren gyur chik
And so a guide for all infinite beings be!

Upon Drongsar Pöntsang’s request, which was accompanied by offerings of gifts, the vidyādhara
Chokgyur Lingpa composed this prayer in Jegang. Through this virtue, may the sixfold classes
of beings be led to the Realm of Lotus Light!

dechen pema ö kyi podrang du
In the Lotus Light Palace of great bliss may I
dü sum gyal kündüpa pema jung
Be born among ḍākinīs and vidyādharas,
rigdzin khandrö khor gyi dral du kyé
The court of Padma, essence of all the buddhas,
tekpa chenpö chö sung töpar shok
And thus hear him teach the Great Vehicle Dharma!

rigdzin nam shyi gopang rab drub né
May I master the four vidyādhara levels,
khachö né su pemé jezung né
Be embraced by Padma in the celestial realms,
lama rangsem yermé nyi tok né
Realize that my mind and the guru are one,
rigdzin pema dé dang yermé shok
And so with the Lotus Vidyādhara be one!

tawa deshyin mepé dön tok shing
May I know the view that defies designation.
gompa jarmé yedrol tadral dang
May actless meditation, ever free from extremes,
chöpa tsolmé drowé dönchöpé
And effortless conduct for the good of beings,
shyendön lab chen ta ru chinpar shok
Beneficent action, reach their culmination!

This was composed by Chokgyur Lingpa and transcribed from the treasure teachings onto white
paper by the Dharma custodian Chödak Sherab Gyaltsen.

dömé shi dang yermé pema jung
Lotus-Born inseparable from the primordial way,
rangnang dakpé zangdok palri shying
Copper-Coloured Mountain, realm of pure self-display:
nang rik yermé machö nyukmé ngang
Appearance and awareness naturally one,
döné namdak shying du kyewar shok
May all be born in the original pureland!

Upon the request of Lama Changchub, yogin of the profound two stages, Chokgyur Lingpa wrote
this as it arose, from the perspective of the ultimate.

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations, 2019 (trans. Oriane Sherap Lhamo, with Peter Woods’ kind assistance).