Verses of Aspiration to Recite While Prostrating
attributed to Sakya Paṇḍita Kunga Gyaltsen1

dak gi chok sum dampar chaktsalwé
Through offering prostration before the supreme Three Jewels,
dak dang dro kün dikdrib dakpar shok
May my own and all other beings’ misdeeds and obscurations be purified!

lak nyi nyampar talmo jarwa yi
May joining the palms of my two hands together,
tab dang sherab zungjuk tobpar shok
Cause us to gain the perfect unity of skilful means and wisdom!

talmo chiwö tsuk tu jarwa yi
May joining my hands at the crown of my head,
womin ganden né su dröpar shok
Cause us to travel to the heaven of Akaniṣṭha!

talmo mintsam tralwar jarwa yi
May joining my hands at my forehead,
lü kyi dikdrib tamché dakpar shok
Cause all harmful actions and obscurations of the body be purified!

talmo drinpé tedu jarwa yi
May joining my hands to the level of my throat,
ngak gi dikdrib tamché dakpar shok
Cause all harmful actions and obscurations of speech to be purified!

talmo nyinggé tedu jarwa yi
May joining my hands at the region of my heart,
yi kyi dikdrib tamché dakpar shok
Cause all harmful actions and obscurations of mind to be purified!

talmo jarwa sosor chewa yi
May drawing apart my two hands once again,
zukku nyi kyi dro dönjé par shok
Cause the two form kāyas to act for beings’ benefit!

kang nyi pümo sa la tsukpa yi
May touching my two knees to the ground,
khorwa ngensong né lé tarwar shok
Cause the lower realms of saṃsāra to be liberated!

lak nyi sor chu sa la tsukpa yi
May touching the ten fingers of my two hands to the ground,
sa chu lam nga rimgyi dröpar shok
Cause us all to traverse the ten stages and five paths!

gowo tralwa sa la tsukpa yi
May touching my forehead to the ground
chuchik küntu ö kyi sa tob shok
Cause us all to attain the eleventh bhūmi of Universal Radiance!

yenlak shyipo kyang kum jepa yi
May extending and contracting my four limbs,
trinlé nam shyi lhün gyi drubpar shok
Cause us to spontaneously accomplish the four types of activity!

tsagyü tamché kyang kum jepa yi
May extending and contracting all the channels of my body,
tsa dü tamché malü drolwar shok
Cause all knots in the subtle channels to be released!

gal tsik umar gyé guk jepa yi
May flexing my spine in the centre of my body,
lung nam malü umar tsüpar shok
Cause all subtle wind-energies to enter the central channel!

sa la tuk né yar la dangwa yi
May touching the ground, then rising from it once again,
khorwar mi né tarlam tobpar shok
Ensure that we do not remain in saṃsāra but find the path to freedom!

dené len mang du mar chaktsalwé
Thus, through offering a great many prostrations,
shyiwar mi né semchen drenpar shok
May we not remain in peace but guide all beings!

dak sok kyang chak pulwé gewé tü
By the power of this virtuous offering of full prostrations,
nekab tsering nemé püntsok shok
May we gain the temporary benefits of long-life, good health and prosperity!

chi tsé dewachen du kyé né kyang
When we die, may we be reborn in Sukhāvatī,
dzokpé sangye gopang nyur tob shok
And then swiftly attain the level of perfect Buddhahood!

pama semchen tamché dé dangden gyur ching
May all sentient beings, our very own parents, be happy!
ngendro tamché taktu tongwa dang
May all the lower realms be forever empty!
changchub sempa gang na su shyukpa
And for all the bodhisattvas, wherever they may be,
dedak kün gyi mönlam drub gyur chik
May each and every prayer of aspiration be fulfilled!

Sarva maṅgalam!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2013 & revised 2019.
↑ Although attributed to Sakya Paṇḍita Kunga Gyaltsen, the question of authorship remains unsettled.
The text was not included among the earliest editions of Sakya Paṇḍita's collected
writings and even recent masters such as Khenpo Appey Rinpoche have said that the attribution
is a matter of conjecture.